==========================
SciPy 1.17.0 Release Notes
==========================

.. note:: SciPy 1.17.0 is not released yet!

.. contents::

SciPy 1.17.0 is the culmination of 6 months of hard work. It contains
many new features, numerous bug-fixes, improved test coverage and better
documentation. There have been a number of deprecations and API changes
in this release, which are documented below. All users are encouraged to
upgrade to this release, as there are a large number of bug-fixes and
optimizations. Before upgrading, we recommend that users check that
their own code does not use deprecated SciPy functionality (to do so,
run your code with ``python -Wd`` and check for ``DeprecationWarning`` s).
Our development attention will now shift to bug-fix releases on the
1.17.x branch, and on adding new features on the main branch.

This release requires Python 3.11-3.14 and NumPy 1.26.4 or greater.


**************************
Highlights of this release
**************************


************
New features
************

`scipy.integrate` improvements
==============================
- The integration routines ``dopri5``, ``dopri853``, ``LSODA``, ``vode``, and
  ``zvode`` have been ported from Fortran77 to C.

`scipy.cluster` improvements
============================


`scipy.interpolate` improvements
================================
- A new ``bc_type`` argument has been added to `scipy.interpolate.make_splrep`
  and `scipy.interpolate.make_splprep` to control the boundary conditions for
  spline fitting. Allowed values are ``"not-a-knot"`` (default) and
  ``"periodic"``.
- A new ``derivative`` method has been added to the
  `scipy.interpolate.NdBSpline` class, to construct a new spline representing a
  partial derivative of the given spline. This method is similar to the
  ``BSpline.derivative`` method of 1-D spline objects.
- Performance of ``"cubic"`` and ``"quintic"`` modes of
  `scipy.interpolate.RegularGridInterpolator` has been improved.
- Numerical stability of `scipy.interpolate.AAA` has been improved.
- `scipy.interpolate.FloaterHormannInterpolator` added support for
  multidimensional, batched inputs and gained a new ``axis`` parameter to
  select the interpolation axis.


`scipy.linalg` improvements
===========================
- `scipy.linalg.inv` routine has been improved:

  - it now attempts to detect the structure of its argument and selects an
    appropriate low-level matrix inversion routine. A new ``assume_a`` keyword
    allows to bypass the structure detection if the structure is known. For
    batched inputs, the detection is run for each 2D slice, unless an explicit
    value for ``assume_a`` is provided (in which case, the structure is
    assumed to be the same for all 2-D slices of the batch);
  - the new ``lower={True,False}`` keyword argument has been added to help
    select the upper or lower triangle of the input matrix for symmetric
    inputs; refer to the docstring of `scipy.linalg.inv` for details;
  - the routine emits a ``LinAlgWarning`` if it detects an ill-conditioned
    input;
  - performance for batched inputs has been improved.
- `scipy.linalg.fiedler` has gained native support for batched inputs.
- performance has improved for `scipy.linalg.solve` with batched inputs
  for certain matrix structures.

`scipy.ndimage` improvements
============================


`scipy.optimize` improvements
=============================
- `~scipy.optimize.minimize(method="trust-exact")` now accepts a
  solver-specific "subproblem_maxiter" option. This option can be used to
  assure that the algorithm converges for functions with an ill-conditioned
  Hessian.
- Callback functions used by `~scipy.optimize.minimize(method="slsqp")` can
  opt into the new callback interface by accepting a single keyword argument
  ``intermediate_result``.


`scipy.signal` improvements
===========================
- `~scipy.signal.abcd_normalize` gained more informative error messages and the
  documentation was improved.
- `~scipy.signal.get_window` now accepts the suffixes ``'_periodic'`` and
  ``'_symmetric'`` to distinguish between periodic and symmetric windows
  (overriding the ``fftbin`` parameter). This benefits the functions
  ``coherence``, ``csd``, ``periodogram``, ``welch``, ``spectrogram``,
  ``stft``, ``istft``, ``resample``, ``resample_poly``, ``firwin``,
  ``firwin2``, ``firwin_2d``, ``check_COLA`` and ``check_NOLA``, which utilize
  ``get_window`` but do not expose the ``fftbin`` parameter.
- `~scipy.signal.hilbert2` gained the new keyword ``axes`` for specifying the
  axes along which the two-dimensional analytic signal should be calculated.
  Furthermore, the documentation of `~scipy.signal.hilbert` and
  `~scipy.signal.hilbert2` was significantly improved.


`scipy.sparse` improvements
===========================
- ``coo_array`` now supports indexing. This includes slices, arrays,
  ``np.newaxis``, ``Ellipsis``, in 1D, 2D and the new nD. So COO format now
  has full support for nD and COO now allows indexing without converting
  formats.
- Additional sparse construction functions include ``expand_dims``,
  ``swapaxes``, ``permute_dims``, and nD support for the ``kron`` function.
- ARPACK Fortran77 library is ported to C. Among many changes, it is now
  possible to use external random generators including NumPy PRNGs for
  reproducible runs. Previously this was not the case due to internal seeding
  behavior of the original ARPACK code.
- Similarly, PROPACK Fortran77 library is also ported to C with the same PRNG
  enhancements and other improvements.
- `~scipy.sparse.dok_array` now supports an ``update`` method which can be
  used to update the sparse array using a dict, ``dict.items()``-like iterable,
  or another ``dok_array`` matrix. It performs additional validation that keys
  are valid index tuples.
- `~scipy.sparse.dia_array.tocsr` is approximately three times faster and
  some unneccesary copy operations have been removed from sparse format
  interconversions more broadly.

`scipy.spatial` improvements
============================
- The ``spatial.transform`` module has gained an array API standard compatible
  backend.
- ``transform.Rotation`` and ``transform.RigidTransform`` have been extended
  from 0D single values and 1D arrays to N-D arrays, with standard indexing and
  broadcasting rules. Both now have the following additions:

  - A ``shape`` property.
  - A ``shape`` argument to their ``identity()`` constructors, which should be
    preferred over the existing ``num`` argument. This has also been added as an
    argument for ``Rotation.random()`` (``RigidTransform`` does not currently
    have a ``random`` constructor).
  - An ``axis`` argument to their ``mean()`` functions.

- The resulting shapes for ``transform.Rotation.from_euler`` /
  ``from_davenport`` have changed to make them consistent with broadcasting
  rules. Angle inputs to Euler angles must now strictly match the number of
  provided axes in the last dimension. The resulting ``Rotation`` has the shape
  ``np.atleast_1d(angles).shape[:-1]``. Angle inputs to Davenport angles must
  also match the number of axes in the last dimension. The resulting ``Rotation``
  has the shape ``np.broadcast_shapes(np.atleast_2d(axes).shape[:-2],
  np.atleast_1d(angles).shape[:-1])``.
- ``Rotation.from_matrix`` has gained an ``assume_valid`` argument that allows for
  performance improvements when users can guarantee valid matrix inputs.
  ``from_matrix`` is now also faster in cases where a known orthogonal matrix
  is used.
- The `scipy.spatial.geometric_slerp` function can now extrapolate. When given a
  value outside the range [0, 1], ``geometric_slerp()`` will continue with
  the same rotation outside this range. For example, if spherically
  interpolating with ``start`` being a point on the equator, and ``end``
  being a point at the north pole, then a value of ``t=-1`` would give you a
  point at the south pole.

`scipy.special` improvements
============================
- The following functions for statistical applications have significantly
  improved parameter ranges and reduced error rates: ``btdtria``, ``btdtrib``,
  ``chdtriv``, ``chndtr``, ``chndtrix``, ``chndtridf``, ``chndtrinc``, ``fdtr``,
  ``fdtrc``, ``fdtri``, ``pdtrik``, ``stdtr`` and ``stdtrit``.


`scipy.stats` improvements
==========================
- `scipy.stats.matrix_t` has been added to represent the matrix t distribution.
  It supports methods ``pdf`` (and ``logpdf``) for computing the probability
  density function and ``rvs`` for generating random variates.
- `scipy.stats.Logistic` was added for modeling random variables that follow a
  logistic distribution.
- `scipy.stats.quantile` now accepts a ``weights`` argument to specify
  frequency weights.
- `scipy.stats.quantile` is now faster on large arrays as it no longer uses
  stable sort internally.
- `scipy.stats.quantile` supports three new values of the ``method`` argument,
  ``'round_inward'``, ``'round_outward'``, and ``'round_neareast'``, for use in
  the context of trimming and winsorizing data.
- `scipy.stats.truncpareto` now accepts negative values for the exponent shape
  parameter, enabling use of ``truncpareto`` as a more general power law
  distribution.
- `scipy.stats.logser` now provides a distribution-specific implementation of
  the ``sf`` method, improving speed and accuracy.
- Implementations of the following function have been vectorized:
  `scipy.stats.ansari`, `scipy.stats.cramervonmises`,
  `scipy.stats.cramervonmises_2samp`, `scipy.stats.epps_singleton_2samp`,
  `scipy.stats.fligner`, `scipy.stats.friedmanchisquare`, `scipy.stats.kruskal`,
  `scipy.stats.ks_1samp`, `scipy.stats.levene`, and `scipy.stats.mood`.
  Typically, this improves performance with multidimensional (batch) input.
- The critical value tables of `scipy.stats.anderson` have been updated.
- The speed and accuracy of most `scipy.stats.zipfian` methods has been
  improved.
- The accuracies of the `scipy.stats.Binomial` methods ``logcdf`` and
  ``logccdf`` have been improved in the tails.
- The default guess of ``scipy.stats.trapezoid.fit`` has been improved.


**************************
Array API Standard Support
**************************
- `scipy.signal.savgol_filter` and `scipy.signal.savgol_coeffs` have gained
  support.
- ``spatial.transform`` has gained support.
- `scipy.integrate.qmc_quad`, `scipy.integrate.cumulative_simpson`, and
  `scipy.integrate.cumulative_trapezoid` have gained support.
- `scipy.linalg.block_diag`, `scipy.linalg.fiedler`, and
  `scipy.linalg.orthogonal_procrustes` have gained support.
- `scipy.interpolate.NdBSpline`, `scipy.interpolate.RegularGridInterpolator`,
  and `scipy.interpolate.RBFInterpolator` gained support.
- Support added for `scipy.stats.alexandergovern`, `scipy.stats.bootstrap`,
  `scipy.stats.brunnermunzel`, `scipy.stats.chatterjeexi`,
  `scipy.stats.cramervonmises`, `scipy.stats.cramervonmises_2samp`,
  `scipy.stats.epps_singleton_2samp`, `scipy.stats.false_discovery_control`,
  `scipy.stats.fligner`, `scipy.stats.friedmanchisquare`, `scipy.stats.iqr`,
  `scipy.stats.kruskal`, `scipy.stats.ks_1samp`, `scipy.stats.levene`,
  `scipy.stats.lmoment`, `scipy.stats.mannwhitneyu`,
  `scipy.stats.median_abs_deviation`, `scipy.stats.mode`, `scipy.stats.mood`,
  `scipy.stats.ansari`,
  `scipy.stats.power`, `scipy.stats.permutation_test`, `scipy.stats.sigmaclip`,
  `scipy.stats.wilcoxon`, and `scipy.stats.yeojohnson_llf`.

**************************************
Deprecated features and future changes
**************************************
- The `scipy.odr` module is deprecated in v1.17.0 and will be completely
  removed in v1.19.0. Users are suggested to use the ``odrpack`` package instead.

********************
Expired deprecations
********************
- ``scipy.stats.find_repeats``
- `scipy.linalg` functions for Toeplitz matrices no longer ravel n-d input
  arguments; instead, multidimensional input is treated as a batch.


******************************
Backwards incompatible changes
******************************
- The resulting shapes for ``transform.Rotation.from_euler`` /
  ``from_davenport`` have changed to make them consistent with broadcasting
  rules. Angle inputs to Euler angles must now strictly match the number of
  provided axes in the last dimension. The resulting ``Rotation`` has the shape
  ``np.atleast_1d(angles).shape[:-1]``. Angle inputs to Davenport angles must
  also match the number of axes in the last dimension. The resulting ``Rotation``
  has the shape ``np.broadcast_shapes(np.atleast_2d(axes).shape[:-2],
  np.atleast_1d(angles).shape[:-1])``.

*************
Other changes
*************
- On POSIX operating systems, SciPy will now use the ``'forkserver'``
  multiprocessing context on Python 3.13 and older for ``workers=<an-int>``
  calls if the user hasn't configured a default method themselves. This follows
  the default behavior on Python 3.14.
- Initial support for 64-bit integer (ILP64) BLAS and LAPACK libraries has been
  added. To enable it, build SciPy with ``-Duse-ilp64=true`` meson option, and make
  sure to have a LAPACK library which exposes both LP64 and ILP64 symbols.
  Currently supported LAPACK libraries are MKL, Apple Accelerate and OpenBLAS
  through the ``scipy-openblas64`` package. Note that:

  - the ILP64 support is optional, and is in addition to the always-available
    LP64 interface;
  - at runtime, you can select the ILP64 variants via the
    ``get_{blas,lapack}_funcs`` functions:
    ``scipy.linalg.lapack.get_lapack_funcs(..., use_ilp64="preferred")`` selects
    the ILP64 variant if available and LP64 variant otherwise;
  - ``cython_blas`` and ``cython_lapack`` modules always contain the LP64
    routines for ABI compatibility.

Please report any issues with ILP64 you encounter.



*******
Authors
*******

* Name (commits)
* h-vetinari (3)
* AdrianRasoOnGit (1) +
* Joshua Alexander (1) +
* Amit Aronovitch (1) +
* Ayush Baranwal (1) +
* Om Biradar (1) +
* Florian Bourgey (1)
* Jake Bowhay (100)
* Matteo Brivio (1) +
* Dietrich Brunn (34)
* Johannes Buchner (2) +
* Evgeni Burovski (284)
* Nicholas Carlini (1) +
* Luca Cerina (1) +
* Christine P. Chai (35)
* Saransh Chopra (1)
* ChrisAB (1) +
* Lucas Colley (115)
* Björn Ingvar Dahlgren (2) +
* Hans Dembinski (1)
* John M Dusel (1) +
* DWesl (4)
* Pieter Eendebak (6)
* Kian Eliasi (2)
* Rob Falck (1)
* Abdullah Fayed (2) +
* Abdullah Sabri Fayed (1) +
* Emmanuel Ferdman (2) +
* Filipe Laíns (1) +
* Daniel Fremont (1) +
* Neil Girdhar (1)
* Ilan Gold (5)
* Nathan Goldbaum (3) +
* Ralf Gommers (121)
* Nicolas Guidotti (1) +
* Geoffrey Gunter (1) +
* Matt Haberland (175)
* Joren Hammudoglu (56)
* Jacob Hass (1) +
* hippowm (4) +
* Nick Hodgskin (1) +
* Stephen Huan (1) +
* ilan-gold (30) +
* Guido Imperiale (41)
* Gert-Ludwig Ingold (1)
* jaimergp (2) +
* JaRoSchm (1) +
* JBlitzar (1) +
* Adam Jones (2)
* joshuamarkovic (1) +
* Dustin Kenefake (1) +
* Robert Kern (3)
* Gleb Khmyznikov (1) +
* Daniil Kiktenko (1) +
* kleiter (1) +
* Oliver Kovacs (1) +
* Koven (1) +
* Abhishek Kumar (2) +
* Arthur Lacote (2) +
* Eric Larson (7)
* Mouad Leachouri (1) +
* Tristan Leclercq (1) +
* Antony Lee (5)
* Jesse Livezey (8)
* Philip Loche (1)
* Yuxi Long (4) +
* Christian Lorentzen (1)
* Gabryel Mason-Williams (1) +
* mcdigman (1) +
* Rafael Menezes (1) +
* Stefano Miccoli (1) +
* Michał Górny (2)
* Jost Migenda (7) +
* Suriyaa MM (1) +
* Andrew Nelson (72)
* newyork_loki (2) +
* Nick ODell (33)
* Ole (1) +
* Dimitri Papadopoulos Orfanos (2)
* Drew Parsons (1)
* Pascal (2) +
* Gilles Peiffer (3) +
* Matti Picus (1)
* Jonas Pleyer (2) +
* Ilhan Polat (116)
* Akshay Priyadarshi (2) +
* Mohammed Abdul Rahman (1) +
* Daniele Raimondi (2) +
* Ritesh Rana (1) +
* Dan Raviv (1) +
* Tyler Reddy (83)
* Lucas Roberts (4)
* Bernard Roesler (1) +
* Mikhail Ryazanov (27)
* Daniel Schmitz (24)
* Martin Schuck (24)
* Dan Schult (29)
* Mugunthan Selvanayagam (1) +
* Scott Shambaugh (14)
* Rodrigo Silva (1) +
* Samaresh Kumar Singh (8) +
* Kartik Sirohi (1) +
* Albert Steppi (177)
* Matthias Straka (1) +
* Sumit (1) +
* Theo Teske (1) +
* Noam Teyssier (1) +
* tommie979 (1) +
* Christian Veenhuis (1)
* Pierre Veron (1) +
* Shuhei Watanabe (1) +
* Warren Weckesser (23)
* WhimsyHippo (3) +
* Rory Yorke (2)
* Will Zhang (1) +
* Zhenyu Zhu ajz34 (1) +
* Eric Zitong Zhou (1)
* Tingwei Zhu (1) +
* ਗਗਨਦੀਪ ਸਿੰਘ (Gagandeep Singh) (36)

    A total of 119 people contributed to this release.
    People with a "+" by their names contributed a patch for the first time.
    This list of names is automatically generated, and may not be fully complete.


************************
Issues closed for 1.17.0
************************

* `#1508 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/1508>`__: Riccati-Bessel functions are misspelled in the docs (Trac #981)
* `#3890 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/3890>`__: ENH: stats.logser: implement ``cdf``\ /``sf``
* `#4487 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/4487>`__: "_solout" in "dopri5" class of "scipy.integrate" reverses the...
* `#5503 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/5503>`__: ENH: special.betainc: improve errors for extreme numbers of trials
* `#7931 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/7931>`__: scipy.special.tests.test_basic::TestCephes::test_fdtri fails...
* `#9023 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/9023>`__: Opportunity to add a seed or a random_state parameter to scipy.sparse.linalg.eig...
* `#9185 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/9185>`__: BUG: sparse.linalg: ARPACK error 1
* `#9460 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/9460>`__: BUG: sparse.linalg.eigs: sorting behavior reliability
* `#10744 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/10744>`__: BUG: sparse.linalg: Test failures with BLIS BLAS
* `#11805 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/11805>`__: Fatal Python error: Segmentation fault - test_arpack.py::test_symmetric_modes
* `#12513 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/12513>`__: BUG: optimize: Halting problem in trust-exact subproblem
* `#13222 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/13222>`__: porting scipy's Fortran code to NAG's nagfor compiler
* `#13671 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/13671>`__: QUERY: signal.coherence: discrepancy with Matlab
* `#13692 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/13692>`__: scipy.sparse.linalg.eigsh hangs for complex matrices on macOS
* `#13780 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/13780>`__: reprodcibility of scipy.sparse.linalg.svds
* `#14498 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/14498>`__: overwrite_data=True kwarg ignored when type="constant" in scipy.signal.detrend
* `#14823 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/14823>`__: BUG: vectors/matrices produced by eigenvalues/vectors routines...
* `#15940 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15940>`__: odeint (lsoda) emits too many warnings that are not filterable.
* `#16232 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/16232>`__: BUG: Memory leak due to new reference passed to non-stealing...
* `#18191 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/18191>`__: BUG: Iteration count in scipy.sparse.linalg._eigen.arpack greater...
* `#18736 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/18736>`__: TST: ``test_hermitian_modes`` test failure
* `#18919 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/18919>`__: BUG: Bad result (broadcasting ?) for binom.ppf and q=1, when...
* `#19291 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/19291>`__: BUG: firwin(pass_zero=False) does not block DC
* `#19756 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/19756>`__: BUG: sparse.linalg.eigsh: output eigenvector non-deterministic...
* `#19826 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/19826>`__: MAINT: follow-ups to gh-19724 (pytest pins, temporary CI changes,...
* `#19930 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/19930>`__: BUG: multivariate t broken for ``df=inf``
* `#20050 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/20050>`__: ENH: interpolate: NdBSpline partial derivatives
* `#20339 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/20339>`__: BUG: Segfault in complex sparse eigen solver
* `#20835 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/20835>`__: BUG: special.fdtri: inaccurate results for extreme arguments...
* `#21039 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/21039>`__: ENH: Implement all relevant methods for ``sparse.dia_array``
* `#21137 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/21137>`__: BUG: sparse.linalg.svds: ``ARPACK error -9: Starting vector is``...
* `#21156 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/21156>`__: DOC: ``integrate``\ : tutorial ``help`` command output is out...
* `#21541 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/21541>`__: ENH: spatial: ``Rotation.__mul__``\ : handle non-``Rotation``...
* `#21563 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/21563>`__: ENH: stats.percentileofscore: 2D array input should be fixed...
* `#21716 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/21716>`__: DOC: conda-forge ``compilers`` package now also usable on windows
* `#21936 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/21936>`__: BUG: ``*ger*`` routines in ``linalg.blas`` are not thread-safe
* `#22053 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22053>`__: MAINT: Cython lint failures in build output
* `#22310 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22310>`__: BUG: scipy.sparse.linalg.eigsh returns an error when LinearOperator.dtype=None
* `#22365 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22365>`__: BUG: ndimage: C++ memory management issues in ``_rank_filter_1d.cpp``
* `#22412 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22412>`__: RFC/API: move ``clarkson_woodruff_transform`` from ``linalg``...
* `#22500 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22500>`__: ENH: spatial.transform: Add array API standard support
* `#22510 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22510>`__: performance: _construct_docstrings slow in scipy.stats
* `#22682 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22682>`__: BUG: special.betainc: inaccurate/incorrect for small a and b...
* `#22794 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22794>`__: ENH: add ``weights`` param to ``stats.quantile`` similarly to...
* `#22871 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22871>`__: BUG: stats.sigmaclip: returns strange thresholds
* `#22880 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22880>`__: BUG: interpolate: Akima1DInterpolator raises ValueError for valid...
* `#22887 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22887>`__: DEV: follow-up tasks after merge of ``spin`` support
* `#22974 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22974>`__: ENH: sparse.linalg: Krylov methods for matrix functions
* `#22979 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22979>`__: DOC: optimize.nnls: squared 2-norm instead of 2-norm?
* `#22980 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/22980>`__: DEV: ``spin test -b all`` adds ``--pyargs scipy`` twice
* `#23021 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23021>`__: DEV: can we 'scrape' package-wide ``make_xp_test_case`` info?
* `#23053 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23053>`__: DEV: ``spin smoke-docs`` adds an option twice
* `#23080 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23080>`__: BUG: optimize: too many open files with multiprocessing
* `#23111 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23111>`__: BUG: stats.pmean: wrong value for infinite orders
* `#23116 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23116>`__: BUG: ``UserWarning`` due to ``spin build``
* `#23124 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23124>`__: CI: (re-)adopt ``(d)tach`` for modularity enforcement
* `#23136 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23136>`__: DEV/DOC: update vendored code pages for ``_lib.decorator``
* `#23160 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23160>`__: DOC: signal.medfilt: remove outdated note
* `#23166 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23166>`__: BENCH/DEV: ``spin bench`` option ``--quick`` is useless (always...
* `#23171 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23171>`__: BUG: ``interpolate.RegularGridInterpolator`` fails on a 2D grid...
* `#23204 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23204>`__: BUG/TST: stats: XSLOW test failures of ``ttest_ind``
* `#23208 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23208>`__: DOC: Missing docstrings for some warnings in scipy.io
* `#23231 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23231>`__: DOC: Fix bug in release notes for scipy v1.12.0
* `#23237 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23237>`__: DOC: Breadcrumbs missing and sidebar different in API reference...
* `#23248 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23248>`__: BUG/TST: ``differentiate`` ``test_dtype`` fails with ``float16``...
* `#23297 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23297>`__: BUG [nightly]: spatial.transform.Rotation.from_quat: fails for...
* `#23301 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23301>`__: BUG: free-threading: functionality based on multiprocessing.Pool...
* `#23303 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23303>`__: BUG: spatial.transform.Rotation: Warning Inconsistency
* `#23334 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23334>`__: DEV: ``spin lint``\ : use ``sys.executable`` always
* `#23344 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23344>`__: CircleCI benchmarks job requires ``hypothesis``
* `#23345 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23345>`__: DOC: Incorrect dimension of PPoly.c in docstring
* `#23352 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23352>`__: DOC: spatial.is_valid_dm: misleading documentation
* `#23355 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23355>`__: Chatterjee's Xi returns different results based on ``numpy``...
* `#23358 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23358>`__: BUG: stats: ppf of 0 returns a value outside the distribution...
* `#23369 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23369>`__: DOC: interpolate: NearestNDInterpolator works with multi-dimensional...
* `#23371 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23371>`__: BUG: (interpolate) _dierckx.data_matrix gives ValueError if input...
* `#23382 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23382>`__: BUG: setting with ``sparse.xxx_{matrix,array}`` 2D singleton
* `#23383 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23383>`__: DOC/DEV: correct editable install ``spin`` guidance
* `#23391 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23391>`__: ENH: spatial.transform: array API standard support tracker
* `#23400 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23400>`__: ENH: spatial.geometric_slerp: allow for extrapolation
* `#23409 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23409>`__: BUG: stats.qmc.Sobol: stuck in infinite loop in low_0_bit after...
* `#23412 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23412>`__: TST: stats: ``marray`` tests failing with latest array-api-strict
* `#23418 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23418>`__: BUG: scipy.signal.square ignores input dtype due to incorrect...
* `#23423 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23423>`__: CI: new BLAS tests ci jobs don't respect ci skips
* `#23431 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23431>`__: DOC: interpolate.RbfInterpolator: incorrect equation in Notes
* `#23449 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23449>`__: DOC/ENH: signal.get_window: different default for symmetric/periodic...
* `#23462 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23462>`__: BUG: sparse: load_npz fails for coo_arry with dim>2
* `#23477 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23477>`__: DOC: The file ``scipy/_lib/_lazy_testing.py`` has been removed
* `#23514 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23514>`__: DOC: add LFX Insights badge to README
* `#23517 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23517>`__: SHGO: issue passing args to objective function
* `#23542 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23542>`__: BUG: interpolate: Internal error from ``fpknot`` while running...
* `#23551 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23551>`__: BUG: stats.levene: test results are incorrect when ``center="trimmed"``
* `#23553 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23553>`__: BUG: scipy.sparse.csgraph.yen crashes with out-of-bounds source...
* `#23555 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23555>`__: BUG: lfilter with empty a array can trigger misleading error...
* `#23556 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23556>`__: BUG: deconvolve with empty divisor or signal arrays causes inconsistent...
* `#23559 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23559>`__: DOC: stats: A reference in the ``fligner`` docstring occurs twice.
* `#23581 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23581>`__: BUG: ``xp_capabilities`` adds empty lines to docstrings
* `#23596 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23596>`__: DOC: wrong version for stats.f_oneway's equal_var parameter
* `#23603 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23603>`__: TST: adapt to NumPy warning change (mean of empty slice)
* `#23608 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23608>`__: DOC: Being clear about the distribution of ``scipy.spatial.transform.Rotation.ra``...
* `#23640 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23640>`__: BUG: optimize: incorrect termination criteria in minpack LMSTR?
* `#23644 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23644>`__: BUG: sparse: ``csc_array.setdiag()`` makes indices unsorted without...
* `#23670 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23670>`__: BUG: ``xp_promote`` and ``xp_result_type`` are slow for big tensors...
* `#23678 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23678>`__: BUG: stats: custom distribution generated from ``zipfian`` has...
* `#23686 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23686>`__: BUG: Hang in scipy 1.16.2 on macOS x86_64 in scipy.sparse.linalg.eigsh...
* `#23689 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23689>`__: CI: optimize: "UserWarning: 'where' used without 'out'" error...
* `#23703 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23703>`__: DOC: special: second parameter in the ``factorialk`` docstring...
* `#23704 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23704>`__: DOC: optimize: typo in LinearConstraint docs
* `#23708 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23708>`__: TST: ``FAILED scipy/stats/tests/test_continuous.py::TestDistributions::test_func``...
* `#23710 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23710>`__: BUG: ``signal/tests/test_short_time_fft.py::test_closest_STFT_dual_window_roundt``...
* `#23711 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23711>`__: BUG: ``stats/tests/test_axis_nan_policy.py::test_axis_nan_policy_axis_is_None``
* `#23715 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23715>`__: BUG: integrate: benchmark integrate.CubatureOscillatory.time_plain...
* `#23720 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23720>`__: TST: test_as_euler_symmetric_axes tol with torch
* `#23742 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23742>`__: QUERY: Fitting 4 parameters beta distribution leads to unexpected...
* `#23750 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23750>`__: TST: signal: Add better isolation to alternative backend tests...
* `#23760 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23760>`__: DOC/DX: ``spin ipython --help`` missing required use of ``--``...
* `#23762 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23762>`__: ENH: interpolate.RegularGridInterpolator: ``eliminate_zeros()``...
* `#23763 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23763>`__: BUG: scipy.odr.ODR Segmentation Fault with job=1 and Explicit...
* `#23778 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23778>`__: ENH: Improve performance of converting csc arrays to csr arrays...
* `#23825 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23825>`__: TST: Missing tests for ``mathieu_even_coef``\ , ``mathieu_odd_coef``
* `#23832 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23832>`__: DOC: Broadcasting in ``stats.quantile``
* `#23852 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23852>`__: BUG/TST: stats: New XSLOW failures in stats
* `#23867 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23867>`__: BUG: ``special.comb(0, 0, repetition=False) == 0`` , not 1
* `#23879 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23879>`__: DOC: RigidTransform.as_components doc is incorrect
* `#23910 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23910>`__: TST: stats: free-threaded failure in ``test_non_finite_inputs_and_int_bins``
* `#23925 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23925>`__: DOC: Invalid documentation of parameter "shape" of the "scipy.sparse....
* `#23932 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23932>`__: CI: mypy and clang jobs failing with "unused function" error...
* `#23989 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/23989>`__: CI: hang in windows job, OpenMP clash
* `#24043 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/24043>`__: DEV: switch from ``dtach`` to ``tach``
* `#24046 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/24046>`__: TST: stats: TestStudentT.test_moments_t failure
* `#24052 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/24052>`__: CI: TypeError: Multiple namespaces for array inputs

************************
Pull requests for 1.17.0
************************

* `#19668 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/19668>`__: ENH: optimize.minimize: add ``subproblem_maxiter`` option for...
* `#21683 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/21683>`__: ENH:MAINT:integrate: Rewrite DOP F77 code in C
* `#22041 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22041>`__: BUG: Perform ``Py_DECREF`` on ``obj`` to avoid memory leak
* `#22506 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22506>`__: ENH: special.btdtria: migrate to boost
* `#22539 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22539>`__: ENH/MAINT: migrate ``special.chndtr`` and its inverses to boost
* `#22644 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22644>`__: ENH: stats.quantile: methods to support trimming/Winsorizing
* `#22699 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22699>`__: ENH: special: boostify F distribution functions
* `#22743 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22743>`__: ENH: ILP64 BLAS/LAPACK support
* `#22748 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22748>`__: ENH:MAINT: sparse.linalg: rewrite ARPACK in C
* `#22795 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22795>`__: ENH: special: add more functions to ``_support_alternative_backends``
* `#22827 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22827>`__: ENH: stats: add ``marray`` support to a few remaining functions
* `#22856 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22856>`__: MAINT: stats: ensure functions work on non-default device
* `#22857 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22857>`__: ENH: stats: add array API support to much of ``_axis_nan_policy``...
* `#22885 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22885>`__: MAINT: eager_warns: accept xp as keyword-only argument
* `#22889 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22889>`__: MAINT: migrate ``special.btdtrib`` to boost
* `#22907 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22907>`__: BENCH: stats.qmc.geometric_discrepancy: add benchmarks
* `#22911 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22911>`__: ENH: signal: Array API for filter design functions
* `#22914 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22914>`__: ENH: signal: Add Array API compatibility to the ``filter_design``...
* `#22924 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22924>`__: ENH: linalg: low-level nD support, take 3
* `#22925 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22925>`__: ENH: stats: Add matrix variate t distribution
* `#22938 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22938>`__: TST: ``signal`` add test coverage to the handling of new set...
* `#22962 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22962>`__: MAINT: migrate ``stdtr`` and ``stdtrit`` to boost
* `#22972 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22972>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.RigidTransform: refactor into pure Python...
* `#22983 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22983>`__: ENH: sparse.linalg: a restarted Krylov method for evaluating...
* `#22989 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/22989>`__: ENH: ``cluster``\ : vectorize ``is_isomorphic``
* `#23006 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23006>`__: REL: set version to 1.17.0.dev0
* `#23009 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23009>`__: ENH: sparse: efficient conversion from DIA to CSR format
* `#23012 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23012>`__: BENCH: asv benchmarks for alternative array backends
* `#23015 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23015>`__: DOC: scipy.signal.ShortTimeFFT.k_max: Fix slice index
* `#23016 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23016>`__: MAINT: bump minimum NumPy version
* `#23019 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23019>`__: BUG: interpolate.Akima1DInterpolator: Identical Rearrangement...
* `#23020 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23020>`__: ENH: interpolate.BSpline: add array API standard interface
* `#23023 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23023>`__: DEP: stats: remove find_repeats
* `#23026 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23026>`__: DEV: Remove ``--parallel`` and rely on ``spin``\ 's ``--jobs``...
* `#23028 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23028>`__: MAINT: create ``_lib._array_api_override`` to solve circular...
* `#23034 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23034>`__: DEP: linalg.interpolative: remove seed and rand
* `#23039 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23039>`__: TYP: fix and improve the ``linalg._decomp_lu_cython`` stub
* `#23041 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23041>`__: DOC/DEV: Updated developer docs for ``spin``
* `#23043 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23043>`__: DEP: linalg: remove kron
* `#23045 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23045>`__: DEP: interpolate.interpnd: remove incidental imports from private...
* `#23050 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23050>`__: DEV: add ``spin notes`` and ``spin authors`` commands
* `#23052 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23052>`__: ENH: interpolate: array API for BSpline-based ``make_`` functions
* `#23057 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23057>`__: ENH: Speed up ``array_namespace`` through caching
* `#23058 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23058>`__: CI: clean up free-threading job, use released Cython/Pythran
* `#23059 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23059>`__: MAINT: remove nan-handling from _factorialx_array_exact
* `#23060 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23060>`__: DOC: Revise a footnote in meson-distutils
* `#23062 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23062>`__: DEV: help debug free-threading build of Fortran modules
* `#23063 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23063>`__: DEV: ignore ``pixi-dev-scipystack`` dirs
* `#23065 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23065>`__: ENH: stats.tukey_hsd: improve array index iteration in ``TukeyHSDResult.__str__```...
* `#23071 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23071>`__: ENH: linalg: low-level batching support in ``solve``
* `#23073 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23073>`__: TST: ``linalg``\ : refactor ``test_blas``
* `#23078 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23078>`__: MAINT: smoke-docs: add a ``--doctest-only-doctests`` flag to...
* `#23081 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23081>`__: DOC: Add tables summarizing array API backend capabilities across...
* `#23082 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23082>`__: TST: linalg: thread-safe rng
* `#23083 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23083>`__: TST: linalg: pytest-run-parallell out of memory
* `#23084 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23084>`__: TST: linalg: race condition in BLAS ``ger*``
* `#23085 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23085>`__: TST: signal: fix flaky TestZpk2Sos
* `#23087 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23087>`__: CI: move pre-release and free-threading jobs to CPython 3.14-dev
* `#23089 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23089>`__: ENH/DEP: linalg: support batching for toeplitz and related functions
* `#23092 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23092>`__: DEV: Address issues in ``spin docs`` command
* `#23093 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23093>`__: DEV: remove duplicate ``--doctest-collect=api`` in ``spin smoke-docs``
* `#23094 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23094>`__: DOC: linalg: fix overview for ``cdf2rdf`` and ``khatri_rao``
* `#23095 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23095>`__: DEV: remove ``python dev.py`` in favor of ``spin``
* `#23096 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23096>`__: CI: move to ``cibuildwheel`` 3.0b4 and to ``manylinux_2_28``
* `#23104 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23104>`__: ENH: stats: Dask support for ``variation``
* `#23105 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23105>`__: ENH: stats: Dask and JAX support for ``pearsonr``
* `#23108 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23108>`__: MAINT: Remove optional arguments from ``*_impl`` functions in...
* `#23112 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23112>`__: MAINT: remove duplicated test in ``stats.tests.test_stats.py``
* `#23117 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23117>`__: BUG: remove ``cdef`` exports in ``linalg._decomp_interpolative``
* `#23118 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23118>`__: TYP: generic ``signal.ShortTimeFFT`` type
* `#23121 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23121>`__: BUG: sparse.linalg.LaplacianNd: periodic eigenvectors
* `#23123 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23123>`__: TYP: Disable NumPy's deprecated mypy plugin
* `#23125 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23125>`__: MAINT: Update vendored ``_lib.decorators`` module to ``v5.2.1``
* `#23129 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23129>`__: DOC: special.roots_jacobi: add example to docstring
* `#23130 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23130>`__: DEV: spin: change shorthand of ``--setup-args`` to ``-S`` to...
* `#23138 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23138>`__: MAINT: sparse: remove python 2 remnants from ``_spbase``
* `#23140 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23140>`__: TST: Fix missing exceptions
* `#23143 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23143>`__: TST: Run pytest-run-parallel on ``xp`` tests
* `#23149 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23149>`__: TST: ndimage.vectorized_filter: add missing assertion to test
* `#23151 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23151>`__: CI: use 4 cores on GitHub Actions
* `#23152 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23152>`__: TST: io: reduce peak memory usage 9x
* `#23153 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23153>`__: TST: optimize: cap pytest-run-parallel memory usage
* `#23173 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23173>`__: ENH/DOC: signal.hilbert: Refactor to avoid extra scaling array...
* `#23175 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23175>`__: MAINT: Bump array-api-compat; speed up ``array-namespace``
* `#23176 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23176>`__: BUG: ``spin bench`` ignores ``--quick`` parameter
* `#23181 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23181>`__: DOC: spatial: Rigid Transformation docs cleanup
* `#23190 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23190>`__: BUG/BENCH: remove unconditional ``--quick`` from ``spin bench``...
* `#23193 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23193>`__: ENH: spatial: optimize performance of ``RigidTransform``
* `#23194 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23194>`__: MAINT: Improve error type for RigidTransform.from_rotation
* `#23198 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23198>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.Rotation: refactor into pure Python class...
* `#23201 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23201>`__: DOC : removes outdated notes from the ``medfilt`` function
* `#23202 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23202>`__: DEP: spatial: raise error for complex input to cosine and correlation
* `#23205 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23205>`__: TST: stats.ttest_ind: remove test of deprecated/removed ``permutations``
* `#23207 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23207>`__: CI: always set Python in array API testing
* `#23210 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23210>`__: DEP: spatial.distance: remove kulczynski1 and sokalmichener metrics
* `#23212 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23212>`__: DEP: signal: remove support for object arrays and longdoubles...
* `#23213 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23213>`__: MAINT: forward port 1.16.0 relnotes
* `#23218 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23218>`__: ENH: sparse: Add COO indexing for 1d, 2d, and nD
* `#23223 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23223>`__: MAINT: port ``_test_fortran.f`` to Python functions in ``test_fortran.py``
* `#23224 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23224>`__: MAINT: _lib: remove old/unneeded code
* `#23232 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23232>`__: DOC: Fix typo in 1.12.0-notes.rst
* `#23233 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23233>`__: ENH: Implement support for ``bc_type="periodic"`` in ``make_splrep``...
* `#23234 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23234>`__: TYP: generic ``interpolate`` types
* `#23243 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23243>`__: DEP: special: remove deprecated functions
* `#23244 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23244>`__: TYP: generic ``optimize`` types
* `#23247 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23247>`__: ENH/DOC: signal.hilbert2: Refactor to avoid extra scaling array...
* `#23249 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23249>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.Rotation: add array API backend
* `#23253 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23253>`__: BUG: interpolate.RegularGridInterpolator: fix linear interp....
* `#23254 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23254>`__: DOC: special: LaTeX cleanup
* `#23255 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23255>`__: MAINT: ``spatial._plotutils``\ : remove matplotlib 1 code
* `#23256 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23256>`__: MAINT: remove ``_lib._threadsafety``
* `#23257 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23257>`__: DOC: add orphaned modules to toctree
* `#23258 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23258>`__: MAINT: ``sparse`` testing without ``decorator``
* `#23259 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23259>`__: ENH: stats: ``Logistic`` distribution
* `#23260 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23260>`__: MAINT: Remove ``_lib.decorator``
* `#23262 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23262>`__: TST: sparse.linalg: improve coverage for ``funm_multiply_krylov``
* `#23264 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23264>`__: TST: ``test_axis_nan_policy``\ : skip on unexpected exceptions
* `#23265 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23265>`__: TST: signal: add test for ``zpk2tf`` with multi-dimensional arrays
* `#23267 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23267>`__: MAINT: sparse: move ``_validate_indices`` and ``_asindices``...
* `#23271 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23271>`__: DOC: interpolate.make_interp_spline: fix minor formatting typos...
* `#23273 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23273>`__: DOC: interpolate.make_splprep: fix dimensions ordering
* `#23274 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23274>`__: MAINT:sparse.linalg: ARPACK to Arnaud rename and project structure...
* `#23275 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23275>`__: TST: migrate away from suppress_warnings and assert_warns
* `#23286 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23286>`__: TST: signal: clean-up tests post array api conversion
* `#23287 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23287>`__: MAINT: differentiate: add ``xp_capabilities``
* `#23288 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23288>`__: MAINT: optimize: mark functions with ``xp_capabilities``
* `#23289 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23289>`__: DOC: Add link to Golub and Van Loan's book "Matrix Computations"
* `#23290 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23290>`__: TST: differentiate: use correct ``xp_capabilities`` for ``jacobian``
* `#23291 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23291>`__: BENCH: sparse: parameterize benchmark with sparse arrays and...
* `#23294 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23294>`__: TST: better thread-unsafe markers and re-enable pytest-run-parallel...
* `#23298 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23298>`__: BUG: spatial.transform.Rotation.from_quat: fix dtype inference...
* `#23300 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23300>`__: DOC: development_workflow: fix SciPy's commit guideline link
* `#23304 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23304>`__: TST: optimize: Speed up ``test__basinhopping``
* `#23305 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23305>`__: TST: linalg: make ``test_expm_multiply`` friendly to pytest-run-parallel
* `#23306 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23306>`__: TST: free-threading performance tweaks
* `#23307 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23307>`__: TST: free-threading: More local RNGs
* `#23311 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23311>`__: MAINT/TST: always use forkserver multiprocessing on POSIX
* `#23313 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23313>`__: BLD: support build warnings for flang/clang-cl on Windows
* `#23317 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23317>`__: BUG: sparse.linalg: fix arpack complex arrays on windows
* `#23319 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23319>`__: TST: io.wavfile: add test for ``SeekEmulatingReader.seek``
* `#23320 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23320>`__: BUG:DOC: sparse.linalg: Fix more arnaud bugs and add C code documentation
* `#23324 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23324>`__: BUG: stats: avoid building docstrings if python is run with ``-OO``
* `#23325 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23325>`__: DOC: interpolate/RBF: tweak the docstring example, tweak dimensions
* `#23326 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23326>`__: DEV: remove non-generated file from ``.gitignore``
* `#23327 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23327>`__: DOC/BUG: Fix a few dynamically modified docstrings.
* `#23331 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23331>`__: TST: Read ``@xp_capabilities`` from ``pytestmark``
* `#23340 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23340>`__: DEP/MAINT: sparse: change default dtype behavior of 'diags_array'...
* `#23341 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23341>`__: BUG: signal: zpk2tf: support array-api-strict on multi-dim arrays
* `#23343 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23343>`__: DOC: Fix trivial typos
* `#23346 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23346>`__: DOC: correct dimensions of PPoly.c in docstring
* `#23349 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23349>`__: BENCH, TST: benchmarks without hypothesis
* `#23350 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23350>`__: BUG: linalg: fix ``solve(..., assume_a='pos', lower=False)``
* `#23354 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23354>`__: DEV: Use ``sys.executable`` everywhere in spin lint
* `#23357 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23357>`__: ENH, MAINT: linalg: assume_a="diagonal" for solve and inv
* `#23359 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23359>`__: DOC: Add example to ``show_config()``
* `#23360 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23360>`__: DOC: io: add docstrings to warnings and errors
* `#23362 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23362>`__: MAINT: linalg.{inv, solve}: better error reporting for batched...
* `#23366 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23366>`__: DOC: Clarify that is_valid_dm doesn't check triangle inequality
* `#23368 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23368>`__: TST: linalg: small tolerance bump for ``test_orth_memory_efficiency``
* `#23370 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23370>`__: ENH: spatial: add ability to suppress gimbal lock warnings for...
* `#23374 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23374>`__: DOC: corrected the docstring of NearestNDInterpolator
* `#23375 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23375>`__: ENH: Add ``NdBSpline.derivative`` method
* `#23381 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23381>`__: MAINT: stats: Apply xp_capabilities decorator to all public functions
* `#23388 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23388>`__: DOC: fix array api support table
* `#23389 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23389>`__: MAINT: cluster.hierarchy: mark set_link_color_palette as out...
* `#23392 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23392>`__: MAINT: datasets: mark functions as out of scope for array api...
* `#23393 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23393>`__: DOC: remove manual array api support list
* `#23394 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23394>`__: DOC: stats.rv_continuous.ppf/isf: document convention
* `#23399 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23399>`__: ENH: add Accelerate ILP64 support and CI job
* `#23401 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23401>`__: DOC: forward port 1.16.1 relnotes
* `#23404 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23404>`__: DOC: special: fix output shape of ``*_all`` functions
* `#23405 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23405>`__: MAINT:BLD:_lib: Remove deprecated Python TLS fallback code from...
* `#23406 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23406>`__: DOC: stats.false_discovery_control: added note that input does...
* `#23410 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23410>`__: MAINT: integrate: add xp_capabilities to public functions
* `#23415 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23415>`__: MAINT: ndimage: add ``xp_capabilities`` to functions in public...
* `#23416 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23416>`__: DOC: Add complexity remark to scipy.stats.kendalltau
* `#23420 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23420>`__: MAINT: break import dependencies between special-linalg and linalg-sparse
* `#23421 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23421>`__: DX: don't lint cython build output
* `#23422 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23422>`__: DOC: special: add example to ellipeinc and correct docstring...
* `#23424 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23424>`__: ENH: spatial: optimize performance of Rotation
* `#23425 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23425>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.RigidTransform: add array API backend
* `#23426 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23426>`__: ENH: spatial.geometric_slerp: allow for extrapolation
* `#23427 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23427>`__: DOC: stats.chatterjeexi: document how to handle ties in ``x``
* `#23432 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23432>`__: DOC: interpolate.RBFInterpolator: fix typo
* `#23434 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23434>`__: CI: fix skip conditions in ``linux_blas.yml`` jobs
* `#23439 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23439>`__: DOC: special: Add some simple examples for loggamma.
* `#23443 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23443>`__: BUG: stats.qmc: Avoid infinite loop in sobol when requesting...
* `#23453 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23453>`__: MAINT: Support ruff 0.12
* `#23454 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23454>`__: ENH, MAINT: simpler calculate_areas()
* `#23456 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23456>`__: DOC: Update link to Jupyter Project Governance
* `#23463 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23463>`__: DOC: sparse.kronsum: add example
* `#23465 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23465>`__: BUG: sparse: nD sparse save_npz and load_npz
* `#23466 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23466>`__: DOC: Remove boilerplate text in a remark
* `#23467 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23467>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.Rotation: support broadcasting
* `#23468 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23468>`__: DOC: optimize.shgo: correct ``minimize_every_iter`` description
* `#23470 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23470>`__: DOC: Update a link about numba support
* `#23473 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23473>`__: DOC: special.hankel1: add example and remove old docstring copy
* `#23476 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23476>`__: DEP: signal.lombscargle: deprecate argument ``precenter``
* `#23479 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23479>`__: DOC: Update outdated ``lazy_xp_function`` references
* `#23483 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23483>`__: ENH: signal.abcd_normalize: Refactor, improve docstr, and make...
* `#23486 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23486>`__: DOC: special: remove duplicated docstrings
* `#23489 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23489>`__: DOC: clarify nnls minimizes squared 2-norm (closes #22979)
* `#23491 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23491>`__: DOC: signal.detrend: clarify ``overwrite_data`` behaviour
* `#23492 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23492>`__: DOC: remove ``help(integrate)`` output
* `#23494 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23494>`__: ENH: integrate.quad: shortcut if upper/lower bounds are equal
* `#23496 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23496>`__: DOC: special: added refs to Digital Library of Math. Functions
* `#23497 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23497>`__: ENH: integrate.romb: array-API support
* `#23498 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23498>`__: TST: additional tests if ``integrate.quad`` upper/lower bounds...
* `#23499 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23499>`__: ENH: update boost to 1.89
* `#23501 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23501>`__: ENH: integrate.cumulative_trapezoid: add array API support
* `#23502 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23502>`__: DOC: add header to array api support in docstring
* `#23504 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23504>`__: BUG: stats: trapezoid.fit does not converge
* `#23507 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23507>`__: ENH: add array api support for ``linalg.orthogonal_procrustes``...
* `#23511 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23511>`__: DOC: interpolate: Ndbspline derivative methods list
* `#23512 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23512>`__: MAINT: remove unused cdflib code
* `#23513 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23513>`__: ENH: integrate.cumulative_simpson: add array api support
* `#23518 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23518>`__: ENH/BUG: signal.get_window: Refactor and allow '_periodic' and...
* `#23520 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23520>`__: BUG: shgo mutating user supplied dictionaries
* `#23521 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23521>`__: BUG: shgo should accept args for fun/jac/hess
* `#23523 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23523>`__: MAINT: Use reshape instead of setting the shape attribute for...
* `#23524 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23524>`__: MAINT: Use reshape instead of setting the shape attribute for...
* `#23526 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23526>`__: MAINT: Use reshape instead of setting the shape attribute for...
* `#23528 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23528>`__: CI: swap to windows-2025 [wheel build]
* `#23531 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23531>`__: ENH:MAINT: sparse.linalg: Rewrite PROPACK in C
* `#23534 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23534>`__: ENH: sparse: add funcs ``swapaxes``\ , ``permute_dims``\ , ``expand_dims``...
* `#23535 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23535>`__: BUG: special: Fix switched overflow and underflow error messages.
* `#23536 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23536>`__: DOC: Convert math symbols into Latex for format consistency
* `#23537 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23537>`__: ENH: Add two private ufuncs related to generalized harmonic numbers.
* `#23538 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23538>`__: MAINT: differential_evolution, polish takes a callable
* `#23547 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23547>`__: ``linalg.solve``\ : move "sym"/"her" solvers to C
* `#23557 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23557>`__: BUG: fix levene and fligner test incorrect results with trimmed...
* `#23558 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23558>`__: DOC: ``special.modfresnelm`` docstring equation fix
* `#23562 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23562>`__: DOC: Fix duplicate and dead link in fligner docstring
* `#23565 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23565>`__: DOC/DEV: update editable install guidance for ``spin install``
* `#23566 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23566>`__: MAINT: Use np.view instead of setting dtype
* `#23569 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23569>`__: ENH: interpolate.FloaterHormannInterpolator: add axis parameter
* `#23572 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23572>`__: DOC: Fix a few typos in API Reference
* `#23573 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23573>`__: MAINT: slsqp callback accepts intermediate_result
* `#23574 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23574>`__: ENH: linalg.fiedler: add native batch support and array api support
* `#23575 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23575>`__: MAINT: use boost master branch
* `#23579 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23579>`__: ENH: interpolate.AAA: add diagonal scaling to improve conditioning
* `#23584 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23584>`__: ENH: migrate ``special.chdtriv`` to boost
* `#23585 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23585>`__: MAINT: remove empty lines added to docstring by various decorators
* `#23586 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23586>`__: MAINT: bump array-api-extra to v0.9.0
* `#23588 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23588>`__: MAINT: Test spatial.transform.Rotation.__iter__ with jit
* `#23590 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23590>`__: ENH: linalg.block_diag: add array api support
* `#23591 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23591>`__: DOC: Remove typo
* `#23592 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23592>`__: MAINT: special: Replace disrecommended assert functions with...
* `#23598 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23598>`__: DOC: Fix format issues in API Reference
* `#23599 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23599>`__: DOC: stats.f_oneway: change versionadded to 1.16.0
* `#23600 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23600>`__: MAINT: fix more memory management and error handling issues in...
* `#23601 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23601>`__: DOC: forward port 1.16.2 relnotes
* `#23606 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23606>`__: MAINT: signal: simplify ``cheb2ap`` formulas
* `#23607 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23607>`__: BUG: signal.lfilter: More meaningful error messages for invalid...
* `#23609 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23609>`__: BUG: signal.deconvolve: More meaningful error messages for invalid...
* `#23610 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23610>`__: TYP: more generic ``integrate`` types
* `#23614 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23614>`__: TST: shim for NumPy warning changes
* `#23616 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23616>`__: BUG: ndimage: fix handling of memory allocation failures.
* `#23618 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23618>`__: BUG: sparse.csgraph.yen: Validate source and sink to avoid seg....
* `#23620 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23620>`__: MAINT: io: Improve ``spmatrix`` arg handling and description...
* `#23621 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23621>`__: DOC/BUG: signal.firwin: Improve documentation
* `#23623 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23623>`__: DOC: stats.levy_stable: improvements
* `#23625 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23625>`__: ENH: sparse: Add DOK update method and tests
* `#23626 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23626>`__: BUG:sparse: allow setting a singleton via a sparse container
* `#23627 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23627>`__: DOC: spatial: Rotation.random: mention distribution in docstring
* `#23629 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23629>`__: CI: use asv<0.6.5 to avoid problem with that release - fixes...
* `#23630 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23630>`__: DEV: drop ``shallow`` from submodules
* `#23632 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23632>`__: MAINT: spatial.transform.Rotation: ``from_euler/from_davenport``...
* `#23633 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23633>`__: MAINT/TST: stats: loosen a test tolerance.
* `#23636 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23636>`__: TST: stats: test against ``marray`` backend again
* `#23638 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23638>`__: CI: adapt ``gpu-ci.yml`` to new Pixi workspace
* `#23645 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23645>`__: MAINT:optimize: Fix missing pointer dereference in MINPACK
* `#23646 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23646>`__: CI: fix issue with ``spin`` broken due to new ``click`` release
* `#23647 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23647>`__: CI: fix issue with spin broken due to new click release (follow-up)
* `#23649 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23649>`__: CI: use Pixi for ``array_api.yml`` and ``lint.yml``
* `#23650 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23650>`__: DOC: Update a reference link in scipy.optimize.root
* `#23653 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23653>`__: MAINT: Fix ``spatial.transform.RigidTransform`` xp backend comments
* `#23654 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23654>`__: CI: use Pixi for ``macos.yml``
* `#23655 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23655>`__: ENH: stats.truncpareto: allow negative exponent
* `#23658 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23658>`__: CI: Pixi: use ``no-pin`` strategy and refactor environments
* `#23659 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23659>`__: MAINT: signal: deduplicate ``_swapaxes`` helpers
* `#23661 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23661>`__: DOC: Improve formatting in continuous distributions description
* `#23662 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23662>`__: ENH: signal: Convert Savitzky-Golay filter to Array API
* `#23666 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23666>`__: DOC/DEV: Document ``scipy.signal``\ 's Array API caveats.
* `#23667 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23667>`__: ENH: integrate.qmc_quad: add array API support
* `#23668 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23668>`__: MAINT: signal: tighten the workaround for object arrays
* `#23669 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23669>`__: DOC: linalg: document batch support
* `#23671 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23671>`__: DOC: Update stable version switcher button styles in CSS
* `#23674 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23674>`__: MAINT: fix whitespace test
* `#23675 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23675>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.RigidTransform: support broadcasting
* `#23676 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23676>`__: BUG: Fixes #23644: sparse: csc_array.setdiag() makes indices...
* `#23677 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23677>`__: ENH: sparse: Add nD kron sparse construction
* `#23679 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23679>`__: MAINT/STY: ``spatial._kdtree``\ : Fix type of default value of...
* `#23680 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23680>`__: MAINT: linalg.hankel: warn against changing behavior for multidimensional...
* `#23683 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23683>`__: MAINT: sparse: avoid recent free-threading ``test_matrix_io.py``...
* `#23688 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23688>`__: MAINT: Remove 'o' (Greek omicron) from allowed symbols.
* `#23690 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23690>`__: DOC: spatial.transform.Rotation: update docs
* `#23692 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23692>`__: MAINT: stats.pmean: enforce finite ``p`` requirement
* `#23693 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23693>`__: ENH: stats.mode: add array API support
* `#23694 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23694>`__: DOC: Correct minor formatting issues in ``scipy.sparse.linalg``
* `#23695 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23695>`__: DOC: spatial.transform.RigidTransform: update docs
* `#23696 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23696>`__: TST: special: avoid extremely slow edge cases in ``mpmath`` tests
* `#23697 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23697>`__: DEV: improve ``spin build --help`` w.r.t. debug builds
* `#23699 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23699>`__: DOC: stats.sigmaclip: results may not satisfy an intuitive property
* `#23702 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23702>`__: ENH: stats.lmoment: add array API support
* `#23705 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23705>`__: MAINT: stats.rv_discrete.ppf/isf: fix behavior with array args,...
* `#23706 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23706>`__: MAINT: stats.multivariate_t.logpdf/pdf: fix infinite DOF special...
* `#23709 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23709>`__: ENH: stats.alexandergovern: add array API support
* `#23713 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23713>`__: TST: macos-15-intel
* `#23714 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23714>`__: DOC: correct typo in ``factorialk`` parameters doc
* `#23716 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23716>`__: TST: stats.Binomial.logcdf: improves precision in tails
* `#23717 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23717>`__: ENH: Migrate special.pdtrik to boost
* `#23718 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23718>`__: ENH: spatial: Implement ``RigidTransform.mean()``
* `#23719 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23719>`__: DOC: minor typo
* `#23721 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23721>`__: TST: test_as_euler_symmetric_axes tol bump
* `#23724 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23724>`__: DOC: Fixing scipy.linalg.polar ``u`` docstring.
* `#23726 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23726>`__: Fix typo (coefficent -> coefficient)
* `#23727 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23727>`__: MAINT: Consistent ``spatial.[c]KDTree`` method parameter defaults...
* `#23729 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23729>`__: BUG: spatial: Fix shape of Rotation mean when ndim > 1
* `#23733 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23733>`__: ENH: stats.logser: implement sf
* `#23735 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23735>`__: CI: silence pyparsing 3.3.0a1 deprecation warnings
* `#23739 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23739>`__: MAINT: stats: remove use of ``np.random.seed``
* `#23740 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23740>`__: Fix typo in documentation where Riccati is misspelled as Ricatti
* `#23741 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23741>`__: DOC: signal.hilbert : example uses instantaneous frequency
* `#23743 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23743>`__: Cygwin interpolate test xfail
* `#23744 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23744>`__: ENH: stats.bootstrap: array API support
* `#23745 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23745>`__: DOC: stats.beta: document issues with 3- and 4- parameter MLE
* `#23746 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23746>`__: ENH: add Array API support to RBFInterpolator
* `#23752 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23752>`__: DOC: Move a paragraph from code to markdown in ndimage tutorial
* `#23753 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23753>`__: MAINT: interpolate: use xp-capabilities for ``make\_`` functions
* `#23755 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23755>`__: BUG: interpolate: fail gracefully if all weights are zero
* `#23759 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23759>`__: ENH: interpolate: make NdBSpline and RGI Array API compatible
* `#23764 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23764>`__: DOC: special: consistent modified Bessel order and fix Hankel...
* `#23765 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23765>`__: TST: signal: isolate use of alternative backend only to function...
* `#23767 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23767>`__: BUG: signal: Fix ``test_closest_STFT_dual_window_roundtrip``...
* `#23769 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23769>`__: DOC: ``special._specfun.eulerb``\ : fix cython docstring
* `#23770 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23770>`__: MAINT: clean up some outdated CPython C API idioms
* `#23771 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23771>`__: BUG: odr: prevent segfault with explicit model and job=1 (#23763)
* `#23772 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23772>`__: ENH: stats.permutation_test: add array API support
* `#23773 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23773>`__: DOC/DX: Document use of ``--`` in spin ipython and spin python
* `#23775 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23775>`__: ENH: stats.power: add array API support
* `#23779 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23779>`__: ENH: stats.false_discovery_control: add array API support
* `#23780 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23780>`__: ENH: interpolate.RegularGridInterpolator: remove zeroes from...
* `#23782 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23782>`__: ENH: speedup quantile by not using stable sort
* `#23788 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23788>`__: TST: some more test tol bumps
* `#23789 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23789>`__: DOC: Improve formatting for the ``scipy.optimize`` module
* `#23792 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23792>`__: CI: use Pixi for a windows job
* `#23795 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23795>`__: MAINT: stats.iqr: prepare for array API translation
* `#23796 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23796>`__: TST: still more test tolerance bumps to accommodate Accelerate
* `#23797 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23797>`__: ENH: sparse: add ``copy=False`` arg to ``astype()`` where it...
* `#23802 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23802>`__: BENCH: add simple benchmark for scipy.stats.quantile
* `#23803 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23803>`__: ENH: stats.sigmaclip: add array API support
* `#23804 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23804>`__: DOC: Convert a math narrative into LaTeX format [docs only]
* `#23807 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23807>`__: ENH: stats.yeojohnson_llf: add array API support
* `#23808 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23808>`__: DOC: Remove two references to files that do nothing
* `#23809 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23809>`__: ENH: stats.median_abs_deviation: add array API support
* `#23810 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23810>`__: ENH: stats.brunnermunzel: add array API support
* `#23812 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23812>`__: DOC: fix typo
* `#23816 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23816>`__: DOC: ``special.diric``\ : "Dirichlet function" -> "Dirichlet...
* `#23819 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23819>`__: ENH: stats.cramervonmises_2samp: vectorize statistic and asymptotic...
* `#23822 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23822>`__: ENH: stats.kruskal: vectorize implementation
* `#23823 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23823>`__: MAINT: interpolate: mark legacy functions out of scope for Array...
* `#23824 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23824>`__: DOC: ``special.mathieu_odd_coef``\ : "even" -> "odd"
* `#23828 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23828>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.Rotation Add axis argument to ``Rotation.mean``
* `#23831 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23831>`__: DOC: Correct a few typos and indentations
* `#23834 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23834>`__: ENH: stats.friedmanchisquare: simplify and vectorize implementation
* `#23835 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23835>`__: DOC: stats.quantile: clarify broadcasting behavior
* `#23837 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23837>`__: ENH: stats.mood: vectorize implementation
* `#23838 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23838>`__: TST: special: Update tests for some Mathieu functions.
* `#23840 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23840>`__: ENH: stats.levene: vectorize implementation
* `#23841 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23841>`__: BLD: bump wheel build image
* `#23843 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23843>`__: ENH: stats.ansari: vectorize implementation
* `#23844 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23844>`__: DEV: move Pixi workspace to repo root
* `#23845 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23845>`__: DOC: fix denominator in scipy.stats.kstatvar for var(k2)
* `#23846 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23846>`__: DOC: Remove an invalid URL in References
* `#23847 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23847>`__: ENH: stats.fligner: vectorize implementation
* `#23849 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23849>`__: ENH: stats.chatterjeexi: add array API support
* `#23850 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23850>`__: DOC: Improve documentation for the directed Hausdorff distance
* `#23853 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23853>`__: DOC: spin: Copy-edit help text for python and ipython commands.
* `#23855 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23855>`__: TST: stats.multiscale_graph_correlation: update reference values
* `#23856 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23856>`__: TST: sparse.linalg.tfqmr: avoid failure due to platform-dependent,...
* `#23858 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23858>`__: DOC: Make a DOI clickable
* `#23861 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23861>`__: DOC: Correct typos: an 1d -> a 1d
* `#23862 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23862>`__: ENH: stats.kruskal: add array API support
* `#23863 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23863>`__: ENH: special: add handling of double type for ``_gen_harmonic``\...
* `#23865 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23865>`__: MAINT/TST: stats.yeojohnson_llf/boxcox_llf: fix/test nan_policy/keepdims...
* `#23866 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23866>`__: DOC: Add reference paper to ``scipy.spatial.KDTree``
* `#23869 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23869>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.Rotation: Add shape to ``random`` and...
* `#23870 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23870>`__: ENH: stats.mannwhitneyu: add array API support
* `#23871 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23871>`__: DOC: stats: Fix some math markup in the boxcox docstring.
* `#23873 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23873>`__: DOC: Update ``scipy.stats.moyal`` reference to new URL
* `#23874 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23874>`__: TST: spatial.transform.Rotation: fix ``Rotation.random`` tests
* `#23875 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23875>`__: ENH: spatial.transform.RigidTransform: implement ``shape`` for...
* `#23876 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23876>`__: DOC: Add DOI to reference paper in ``fractional_matrix_power``...
* `#23877 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23877>`__: MAINT/CI: use ``dtach`` for modularity enforcement
* `#23880 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23880>`__: TST: interpolate.AAA: bump test tolerance
* `#23881 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23881>`__: ENH: stats.epps_singleton_2samp: vectorize implementation
* `#23883 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23883>`__: DOC: forward port 1.16.3 relnotes
* `#23887 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23887>`__: DOC: correct grammar issues in code comments
* `#23889 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23889>`__: ENH: stats.levene: add array API support
* `#23890 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23890>`__: DOC/TST: stats.quantile: document and test JAX support
* `#23891 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23891>`__: ENH: stats.iqr: add array API support
* `#23893 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23893>`__: MAINT: stats.epps_singleton_2samp: NaNs/Infs in input -> NaNs...
* `#23895 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23895>`__: BUG: linalg: fix MKL ILP64 symbol misnamings
* `#23897 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23897>`__: DOC: sparse: Add examples sections to three new function doc_strings
* `#23898 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23898>`__: ENH: stats.wilcoxon: add array API support
* `#23899 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23899>`__: ENH: stats.friedmanchisquare: add array API support
* `#23903 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23903>`__: TST: signal: mark failing tests to unblock CI
* `#23904 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23904>`__: BENCH: integrate: skip xslow benchmarks in CI
* `#23905 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23905>`__: CI: free up disk space in Intel oneAPI workflow
* `#23911 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23911>`__: TST: stats: avoid modifying shared self.u
* `#23912 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23912>`__: ENH: stats.fligner: add array API support
* `#23914 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23914>`__: ENH:integrate: Rewrite LSODA in C
* `#23915 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23915>`__: BUG: ``special``\ : Fix convergence criterion in ``eval_{legendre,``...
* `#23917 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23917>`__: DOC: special: Ellipsoidal harmonic functions aren't Lame
* `#23920 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23920>`__: DEV: update ``CODEOWNERS``
* `#23921 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23921>`__: BUG:signal: Ensure consistent dtypes for filter functions across...
* `#23922 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23922>`__: BUG: optimize: add py314 wrapper for ``inspect.signature`` of...
* `#23928 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23928>`__: ENH: stats.cramervonmises_2samp: add array API support
* `#23929 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23929>`__: ENH: stats.epps_singleton_2samp: add array API support
* `#23930 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23930>`__: ENH: stats._xp_searchsorted: private vectorized searchsorted
* `#23933 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23933>`__: ENH: spatial.transform: add ``axis`` argument to ``RigidTransform.mean``
* `#23934 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23934>`__: DOC: spatial: RigidTransform docs tweaks
* `#23936 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23936>`__: BLD/CI: Add ASAN suppressions and CI job
* `#23937 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23937>`__: TST: ``spatial.transform.RigidTransform``\ : Add ND concatenation...
* `#23940 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23940>`__: BUG: sparse.csgraph: remove rel import to fix Cython 3.2
* `#23941 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23941>`__: ENH: stats.quantile: add support for frequency weights
* `#23942 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23942>`__: DOC correct "shape" type for "scipy.sparse.random_array"
* `#23948 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23948>`__: DOC: stats.cumfreq: correct bin edges of plot
* `#23952 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23952>`__: MAINT: stats: silence the "unused function" build noise from...
* `#23954 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23954>`__: BENCH: interpolate: fix the RGI subclassing benchmark
* `#23955 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23955>`__: DOC: list classes in Array API tables
* `#23956 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23956>`__: MAINT: add ``xp-capabilities`` to ``BSpline``
* `#23963 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23963>`__: ENH:integrate: Rewrite VODE and ZVODE in C
* `#23964 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23964>`__: ENH: stats.ks_1samp: vectorize implementation
* `#23966 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23966>`__: ENH: stats.cramervonmises: vectorize and add array API support
* `#23970 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23970>`__: ENH: stats.ks_1samp: add array API support
* `#23971 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23971>`__: ENH: stats.ansari: add array API support
* `#23974 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23974>`__: ENH: stats: Updated tabulated critical values for the normal...
* `#23975 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23975>`__: MAINT: signal: remove an obsolete workaround in detrend
* `#23976 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23976>`__: DOC: interpolate.interpn: add value comparison to example
* `#23979 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23979>`__: BUG: special: fix ``comb(n, 0, repetition=True)`` returning ``0``...
* `#23981 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23981>`__: ENH: stats._xp_searchsorted: simplification, edge case handling,...
* `#23982 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23982>`__: DEV: update Pixi workspace name and description
* `#23984 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23984>`__: DEV: update CODEOWNERS
* `#23986 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23986>`__: MAINT: sync and update scipy-openblas to 0.3.30.0.8
* `#23987 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23987>`__: CI: reduce cache usage in GitHub Actions
* `#23988 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23988>`__: CI: add ``environments`` args to ``setup-pixi`` to log dependencies
* `#23993 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23993>`__: BLD/DEV: force openblas on Windows
* `#23994 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/23994>`__: DOC/BLD: Clarify ``yum`` usage in RHEL
* `#24003 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24003>`__: MAINT: stats: re-enable the "unused function" warning in qmc...
* `#24004 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24004>`__: CI: use stable numpy release in free-threading job
* `#24006 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24006>`__: MAINT: removes a reference cycle in ``optimize.differential_evolution``
* `#24007 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24007>`__: TST: optimize.least_squares: reduce process count and thread...
* `#24008 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24008>`__: BUG: fix interpreter crashes in special functions related to...
* `#24012 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24012>`__: TST: optimize.minimize: make trust-constr test thread safe by...
* `#24013 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24013>`__: BUG: Ensure C-contiguous inputs in ``_fitpack_repro._validate_inputs``...
* `#24016 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24016>`__: CI: run cache-heavy OneAPI job on main every 2 days to optimize...
* `#24023 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24023>`__: TST: integrate.qmc_quad: tolerance bump
* `#24024 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24024>`__: ENH/TST: signal: Add xp_capabilities for scipy.signal
* `#24025 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24025>`__: DOC: stats: add equations for Cramer von Mises functions
* `#24028 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24028>`__: MAINT:integrate: Initialize variable to silence compiler warnings
* `#24029 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24029>`__: ENH: stats.mood: add array API support
* `#24033 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24033>`__: DEP: deprecate ``scipy.odr``
* `#24036 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24036>`__: CI: run Windows OneAPI job on main every 2 days to prefetch cache
* `#24039 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24039>`__: DOC/TST: fft: mark array api coverage with ``xp_capabilities``
* `#24040 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24040>`__: DOC: add LFX Insights badge to README
* `#24044 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24044>`__: DOC: optimize.minimize: fix ``subproblem_maxiter`` docs for ``trust-exact``...
* `#24045 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24045>`__: MAINT: signal: remove stray np.testing assertions
* `#24047 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24047>`__: TST: stats.t: add tolerance to moment test
* `#24048 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24048>`__: DEV: switch from ``dtach`` to ``tach``
* `#24049 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24049>`__: MAINT: speed up ``xp_promote`` and ``xp_result_type`` for big...
* `#24050 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24050>`__: DEV: remove unused ``build-mkl`` task from workspace
* `#24053 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24053>`__: BUG: signal: fix a GetWindow test
* `#24056 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24056>`__: ENH: spatial: factor out ``from_matrix`` orthogonalization for...
* `#24057 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24057>`__: MAINT: Fix a deprecation warning coming from pytest-run-parallel
* `#24059 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24059>`__: CI: revert pre-release NumPy and no isolation from np2 release...
* `#24061 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24061>`__: MAINT: fix a typo in nnls documentation
* `#24063 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24063>`__: TST: linalg/solve: reenable and fix the "pos def" solve test
* `#24067 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24067>`__: DEV: add test-coverage and test-xslow tasks
* `#24068 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24068>`__: DEV: tach: use ``respect_gitignore = "if_git_repo"``
* `#24070 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24070>`__: MAINT: interpolate/RBF: use fixed-width ints with pythran
* `#24071 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24071>`__: DEV: add ``bench`` task
* `#24077 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24077>`__: MAINT: lock Pixi to fix CI
* `#24080 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24080>`__: DEP: signal.lombscargle: deprecate positional args, warn on ``precenter=False``
* `#24085 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24085>`__: DOC: linalg: edit the doc note: we no longer import numpy linalg...
* `#24094 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24094>`__: TST: fft: ``allow_dask_compute`` for all ``uarray``\ -using funcs
* `#24095 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/24095>`__: DOC: differential_evolution - fix typo in custom strategy example


