doc/source/getting_started.rst, before:

.. _getting_started_ref:

***************
Getting started
***************

Installation
------------

.. panels::
    :card: + install-card
    :column: col-lg-6 col-md-6 col-sm-12 col-xs-12 p-3

    Working with conda?
    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    SciPy is part of the `Anaconda <https://docs.continuum.io/anaconda/>`__
    distribution and can be installed with Anaconda or Miniconda:

    ++++++++++++++++++++++

    .. code-block:: bash

        conda install scipy

    ---

    Prefer pip?
    ^^^^^^^^^^^

    SciPy can be installed via pip from `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/scipy>`__.

    ++++

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip install scipy

    ---
    :column: col-12 p-3

    In-depth instructions?
    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    Installing a specific version? Installing from source? Check the
    installation page.

    .. container:: custom-button

        `Learn more <https://scipy.org/install/>`__

Tutorials
---------

For a quick overview of SciPy functionality, see the :ref:`user guide<user_guide>`.

You can also refer to the :ref:`reference guide<scipy-api>` for an exhaustive
list of all what is possible with SciPy.

Commit message:

DOC: replace `sphinx_panels` and `sphinx_tabs` with `sphinx_design` (#16659)
[skip azp] [skip actions]

doc/source/getting_started.rst, after:

.. _getting_started_ref:

***************
Getting started
***************

Installation
------------

.. grid:: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        Working with conda?
        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

        SciPy is part of the `Anaconda <https://docs.continuum.io/anaconda/>`__
        distribution and can be installed with Anaconda or Miniconda:

        ++++++++++++++++++++++

        .. code-block:: bash

            conda install scipy

    .. grid-item-card::

        Prefer pip?
        ^^^^^^^^^^^

        SciPy can be installed via pip from `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/scipy>`__.

        ++++

        .. code-block:: bash

            pip install scipy

    .. grid-item-card::
        :columns: 12

        In-depth instructions?
        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

        Installing a specific version? Installing from source? Check the
        installation page.

        .. container:: custom-button

            `Learn more <https://scipy.org/install/>`__

Tutorials
---------

For a quick overview of SciPy functionality, see the :ref:`user guide<user_guide>`.

You can also refer to the :ref:`reference guide<scipy-api>` for an exhaustive
list of all what is possible with SciPy.
