doc/source/dev/contributor/ubuntu_guide.rst, before:

:orphan:

.. _ubuntu-guide:

======================================
Development environment guide (Ubuntu)
======================================

This guide will cover:

* setting up and maintaining a development environment, including installing
  compilers and SciPy build dependencies;
* creating a personal fork of the SciPy repository on GitHub;
* using git to manage a local repository with development branches;
* performing an in-place build of SciPy; and
* creating a virtual environment that adds this development version of SciPy to
  the Python path

in Ubuntu. (Tested on 16.04, 18.04, and 20.04). *Users running Windows can
follow these instructions after setting up* `Windows Subsystem for Linux`_ *or
an Amazon EC2 instance with Ubuntu 20.04. However, the instructions for setting
up a development environment with Docker may be more reliable.*

.. note::

   This guide does not present the only way to set up a development environment;
   there are many valid choices of Python distribution, C/Fortran compiler, and
   installation options. The steps here can often be adapted for other choices,
   but we cannot provide documentation tailored for them.

   This guide assumes that you are starting without an existing Python 3
   installation, and that you are using pip. If you already have Python 3, you
   might want to uninstall it first to avoid ambiguity over which Python version
   is being used at the command line.

.. _quickstart-ubuntu-build:

Building SciPy
==============

With pip
--------

Start with installing ``pip``::

    sudo apt install -y python3-pip

All further work should proceed in a virtual environment. Popular options
include the standard library ``venv`` module or a separate ``virtualenv``
package. There are muliple third-party tutorials on how to set up a virtual
environment, so we cover only briefly these two options here.

.. note::

    We repeat: all work should happen in a virtual environment. Never use ``sudo pip``.

Using ``virtualenv``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install the ``virtualenvwrapper`` package::

    python3 -m pip install virtualenvwrapper --user

Edit the ``.bashrc`` file to add some environment variables which are used
internally by the ``virtualenvwrapper``::

    export WORKON_HOME=$HOME/virtualenvs
    export VIRTUALENVWRAPPER_PYTHON=/usr/bin/python3
    . $HOME/.local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

Here we store the virtualenvs in a ``virtualenvs`` folder in the home directory.
(you might need to create the folder manually).

Now open a new terminal window for the changes to the ``.bashrc`` to take effect.

Create a new virtual environment and activate it::

    mkvirtualenv scipy-dev

Your command prompt now lists the name of your new environment, like so
``(scipy-dev)$``. This means that the environment is active. If it is not,
activate it manually with::

    workon scipy-dev

Note ``mkvirtualenv`` and ``workon`` commands come from the ``virtualwrapper``
package.

Using the standard-library ``venv`` package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install the ``venv`` package::

    sudo apt install -y python3-venv

Change the directory to your home folder and create a directory ``.venvs`` there.
Create the virtualenvironment::

    python3 -m venv scipy-dev

To activate the environment, use ::

    source $HOME/.venvs/scipy-dev/bin/activate

Your command prompt now lists the name of your new environment, like so
``(scipy-dev)$``.

(For the official docs for the ``venv`` package see
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).

Building SciPy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Inside the ``scipy-dev`` environment, install the python-level dependencies::

    python -m pip install numpy pytest cython pythran pybind11 meson ninja

Note that when the virtual environment is active, the system-wide names ``pip3``
and ``python3`` are aliased to ``pip`` and ``python``, respectively.

Now that you have all external dependencies, navigate to the directory where
you cloned the source code into. Download the submodules::

    git submodule update --init

Finally, build SciPy and test it (this takes a while; subsequent rebuilds will be
much faster)::

    python dev.py

With conda
----------

#. Download, install, and test the latest release of the
   `Anaconda Distribution of Python`_. In addition to the latest version of
   Python 3, the Anaconda Distribution includes dozens of the most popular
   Python packages for scientific computing, the ``conda`` package manager, and
   tools for managing virtual environments.

   If you're installing using the terminal, be sure to follow the "Next Steps"
   listed after the installer finishes. You might also need to restart your
   terminal window or enter ``source ~/.bashrc`` for all the changes to take
   effect.

#. (Optional) In a terminal window, enter ``conda list``. |br| This shows a list
   of all the Python packages that came with the Anaconda Distribution of
   Python. Note the latest released version of SciPy is among them; this is not
   the development version you are going to build and will be able to modify.

   Ideally, we'd like to have both versions, and we'd like to be able to switch
   between the two as needed. `Virtual environments <https://medium.freecodecamp.org/why-you-need-python-environments-and-how-to-manage-them-with-conda-85f155f4353c>`_
   can do just that. With a few keystrokes in the terminal or even the click of
   an icon, we can enable or disable our development version. Let's set that up.

   .. note::

      If ``conda`` is not a recognized command, try restarting your terminal. If
	  it is still not recognized, please see "Should I add Anaconda to the macOS
	  or Linux PATH?" in the `Anaconda FAQ`_.

#. Enter ``conda config --env --add channels conda-forge`` to tell Anaconda the
   source we want for our packages. Then enter ``conda create --name scipy-dev python=3.9 numpy pybind11 cython pythran pytest gfortran gxx sphinx pydata-sphinx-theme sphinx-design matplotlib mypy git``. |br| This tells ``conda`` to create a virtual environment named ``scipy-dev`` (or another name that you prefer) with several packages.

   * ``numpy pybind11 cython pythran`` are four packages that SciPy depends on.

   * ``gfortran gxx`` are compilers used to build SciPy's Fortran, C, and C++ source code.

   * ``pytest`` is needed for running the test suite.

   * ``sphinx``, ``pydata-sphinx-theme``, ``sphinx-design`` and ``matplotlib`` are required to render the SciPy documentation.

   * ``mypy`` is a static type checker for Python. Consider using it.

   * ``git`` is a version control system used to download and manage the SciPy source code.

   Note that we're installing SciPy's build dependencies and some other software, but not SciPy itself.

   .. note::

      You could ``conda create`` an empty virtual environment first, then
      ``conda install`` the packages, but creating the virtual environment
      with all the packages you need is preferable to installing packages
      individually because it makes it easier for ``conda`` to solve
      the package dependencies optimally.

#. You're still in the base environment. Activate your new virtual environment
   by entering ``conda activate scipy-dev``. |br| If you're working with an old
   version of ``conda``, you might need to type ``source activate scipy-dev``
   instead (see `here <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49600611/python-anaconda-should-i-use-conda-activate-or-source-activate-in-linux)>`__).
   Note that you'll need to have this virtual environment active whenever you
   want to work with the development version of SciPy.

#. Browse to the `SciPy repository on GitHub <https://github.com/scipy/scipy>`_ and `create your own fork <https://help.github.com/en/articles/fork-a-repo>`_. You'll need to create a GitHub account if you don't already have one.

#. Browse to your fork. Your fork will have a URL like `https://github.com/mdhaber/scipy <https://github.com/mdhaber/scipy>`_, except with your GitHub username in place of "mdhaber".

#. Click the big, green "Clone or download" button, and copy the ".git" URL to the clipboard. The URL will be the same as your fork's URL, except it will end in ".git".

#. Create a folder for the SciPy source code in a convenient place on your computer. Navigate to it in the terminal.

#. Enter the command ``git clone`` followed by your fork's .git URL. Note that this creates in the terminal's working directory a ``scipy`` folder containing the SciPy source code.

#. In the terminal, navigate into the ``scipy`` root directory (e.g. ``cd scipy``).

#. Initialize git submodules: ``git submodule update --init``.

#. Do an in-place build: enter ``python3 setup.py build_ext --inplace``. |br| This will compile the C, C++, and Fortran code that comes with SciPy. We installed ``python3`` with Anaconda. ``setup.py`` is a script in the root directory of SciPy, which is why you have to be in the SciPy root directory to call it. ``build_ext`` is a command defined in ``setup.py``, and ``--inplace`` is an option we'll use to ensure that the compiling happens in the SciPy directory you already have rather than the default location for Python packages. By building in-place, you avoid having to re-build SciPy before you can test changes to the Python code.

#. Test the build: enter ``python3 runtests.py -v``. ``runtests.py`` is another script in the SciPy root directory. It runs a suite of tests that make sure SciPy is working as it should, and ``-v`` activates the ``--verbose`` option to show all the test output. If the tests are successful, you now have a working development build of SciPy! You could stop here, but you would only be able to use this development build when the Python working directory is the SciPy root directory.

#. Enter ``conda develop .``, where ``.`` refers to the present directory. |br| This will allow us to ``import`` the development version of SciPy in Python regardless of Python's working directory.

#. In a new terminal window, test your setup. If you activate your virtual environment (e.g. ``conda activate scipy-dev``) and run Python code that imports from SciPy, any changes you make to the SciPy code should be reflected when the code runs. After deactivating the virtual environment (``conda deactivate``), Python imports from the version of SciPy installed by Anaconda. You can also check which version of SciPy you're using by executing in Python::

      import scipy
      print(scipy.__version__)

   If you have successfully imported a development version of SciPy, the word ``dev`` will appear in the output, e.g.::

      1.6.0.dev0+be97f1a


.. _Anaconda SciPy Dev\: Part I (macOS): https://youtu.be/1rPOSNd0ULI

.. _Anaconda SciPy Dev\: Part II (macOS): https://youtu.be/Faz29u5xIZc

.. _Anaconda Distribution of Python: https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/

.. _Rename the file: https://www.maketecheasier.com/rename-files-in-linux/

.. _Anaconda FAQ: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/user-guide/faq/

.. _Homebrew on Linux: https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux

.. _Windows Subsystem for Linux: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10

.. |PYTHONPATH| replace:: ``PYTHONPATH``
.. _PYTHONPATH: https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#environment-variables

.. |br| raw:: html

    <br>

Commit message:

DOC: Replace runtests.py with dev.py where appropriate (#16732)

doc/source/dev/contributor/ubuntu_guide.rst, after:

:orphan:

.. _ubuntu-guide:

======================================
Development environment guide (Ubuntu)
======================================

This guide will cover:

* setting up and maintaining a development environment, including installing
  compilers and SciPy build dependencies;
* creating a personal fork of the SciPy repository on GitHub;
* using git to manage a local repository with development branches;
* performing an in-place build of SciPy; and
* creating a virtual environment that adds this development version of SciPy to
  the Python path

in Ubuntu. (Tested on 16.04, 18.04, and 20.04). *Users running Windows can
follow these instructions after setting up* `Windows Subsystem for Linux`_ *or
an Amazon EC2 instance with Ubuntu 20.04. However, the instructions for setting
up a development environment with Docker may be more reliable.*

.. note::

   This guide does not present the only way to set up a development environment;
   there are many valid choices of Python distribution, C/Fortran compiler, and
   installation options. The steps here can often be adapted for other choices,
   but we cannot provide documentation tailored for them.

   This guide assumes that you are starting without an existing Python 3
   installation, and that you are using pip. If you already have Python 3, you
   might want to uninstall it first to avoid ambiguity over which Python version
   is being used at the command line.

.. _quickstart-ubuntu-build:

Building SciPy
==============

With pip
--------

Start with installing ``pip``::

    sudo apt install -y python3-pip

All further work should proceed in a virtual environment. Popular options
include the standard library ``venv`` module or a separate ``virtualenv``
package. There are muliple third-party tutorials on how to set up a virtual
environment, so we cover only briefly these two options here.

.. note::

    We repeat: all work should happen in a virtual environment. Never use ``sudo pip``.

Using ``virtualenv``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install the ``virtualenvwrapper`` package::

    python3 -m pip install virtualenvwrapper --user

Edit the ``.bashrc`` file to add some environment variables which are used
internally by the ``virtualenvwrapper``::

    export WORKON_HOME=$HOME/virtualenvs
    export VIRTUALENVWRAPPER_PYTHON=/usr/bin/python3
    . $HOME/.local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

Here we store the virtualenvs in a ``virtualenvs`` folder in the home directory.
(you might need to create the folder manually).

Now open a new terminal window for the changes to the ``.bashrc`` to take effect.

Create a new virtual environment and activate it::

    mkvirtualenv scipy-dev

Your command prompt now lists the name of your new environment, like so
``(scipy-dev)$``. This means that the environment is active. If it is not,
activate it manually with::

    workon scipy-dev

Note ``mkvirtualenv`` and ``workon`` commands come from the ``virtualwrapper``
package.

Using the standard-library ``venv`` package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install the ``venv`` package::

    sudo apt install -y python3-venv

Change the directory to your home folder and create a directory ``.venvs`` there.
Create the virtualenvironment::

    python3 -m venv scipy-dev

To activate the environment, use ::

    source $HOME/.venvs/scipy-dev/bin/activate

Your command prompt now lists the name of your new environment, like so
``(scipy-dev)$``.

(For the official docs for the ``venv`` package see
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).

Building SciPy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Inside the ``scipy-dev`` environment, install the python-level dependencies::

    python -m pip install numpy pytest cython pythran pybind11 meson ninja

Note that when the virtual environment is active, the system-wide names ``pip3``
and ``python3`` are aliased to ``pip`` and ``python``, respectively.

Now that you have all external dependencies, navigate to the directory where
you cloned the source code into. Download the submodules::

    git submodule update --init

Finally, build SciPy and test it (this takes a while; subsequent rebuilds will be
much faster)::

    python dev.py

With conda
----------

#. Download, install, and test the latest release of the
   `Anaconda Distribution of Python`_. In addition to the latest version of
   Python 3, the Anaconda Distribution includes dozens of the most popular
   Python packages for scientific computing, the ``conda`` package manager, and
   tools for managing virtual environments.

   If you're installing using the terminal, be sure to follow the "Next Steps"
   listed after the installer finishes. You might also need to restart your
   terminal window or enter ``source ~/.bashrc`` for all the changes to take
   effect.

#. (Optional) In a terminal window, enter ``conda list``. |br| This shows a list
   of all the Python packages that came with the Anaconda Distribution of
   Python. Note the latest released version of SciPy is among them; this is not
   the development version you are going to build and will be able to modify.

   Ideally, we'd like to have both versions, and we'd like to be able to switch
   between the two as needed. `Virtual environments <https://medium.freecodecamp.org/why-you-need-python-environments-and-how-to-manage-them-with-conda-85f155f4353c>`_
   can do just that. With a few keystrokes in the terminal or even the click of
   an icon, we can enable or disable our development version. Let's set that up.

   .. note::

      If ``conda`` is not a recognized command, try restarting your terminal. If
	  it is still not recognized, please see "Should I add Anaconda to the macOS
	  or Linux PATH?" in the `Anaconda FAQ`_.

#. Enter ``conda config --env --add channels conda-forge`` to tell Anaconda the
   source we want for our packages. Then enter ``conda create --name scipy-dev python=3.9 numpy pybind11 cython pythran pytest gfortran gxx sphinx pydata-sphinx-theme sphinx-design matplotlib mypy git``. |br| This tells ``conda`` to create a virtual environment named ``scipy-dev`` (or another name that you prefer) with several packages.

   * ``numpy pybind11 cython pythran`` are four packages that SciPy depends on.

   * ``gfortran gxx`` are compilers used to build SciPy's Fortran, C, and C++ source code.

   * ``pytest`` is needed for running the test suite.

   * ``sphinx``, ``pydata-sphinx-theme``, ``sphinx-design`` and ``matplotlib`` are required to render the SciPy documentation.

   * ``mypy`` is a static type checker for Python. Consider using it.

   * ``git`` is a version control system used to download and manage the SciPy source code.

   Note that we're installing SciPy's build dependencies and some other software, but not SciPy itself.

   .. note::

      You could ``conda create`` an empty virtual environment first, then
      ``conda install`` the packages, but creating the virtual environment
      with all the packages you need is preferable to installing packages
      individually because it makes it easier for ``conda`` to solve
      the package dependencies optimally.

#. You're still in the base environment. Activate your new virtual environment
   by entering ``conda activate scipy-dev``. |br| If you're working with an old
   version of ``conda``, you might need to type ``source activate scipy-dev``
   instead (see `here <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49600611/python-anaconda-should-i-use-conda-activate-or-source-activate-in-linux)>`__).
   Note that you'll need to have this virtual environment active whenever you
   want to work with the development version of SciPy.

#. Browse to the `SciPy repository on GitHub <https://github.com/scipy/scipy>`_ and `create your own fork <https://help.github.com/en/articles/fork-a-repo>`_. You'll need to create a GitHub account if you don't already have one.

#. Browse to your fork. Your fork will have a URL like `https://github.com/mdhaber/scipy <https://github.com/mdhaber/scipy>`_, except with your GitHub username in place of "mdhaber".

#. Click the big, green "Clone or download" button, and copy the ".git" URL to the clipboard. The URL will be the same as your fork's URL, except it will end in ".git".

#. Create a folder for the SciPy source code in a convenient place on your computer. Navigate to it in the terminal.

#. Enter the command ``git clone`` followed by your fork's .git URL. Note that this creates in the terminal's working directory a ``scipy`` folder containing the SciPy source code.

#. In the terminal, navigate into the ``scipy`` root directory (e.g. ``cd scipy``).

#. Initialize git submodules: ``git submodule update --init``.

#. Build SciPy: enter ``python3 dev.py build``

    This will compile the C, C++, and Fortran code that comes with SciPy and
    install it in the directory you already have rather than the default
    location for Python packages. We installed ``python3`` with Anaconda.
    ``dev.py`` is a script in the root directory of SciPy which can be used to
    execute several development tasks (see :ref:`the-dev-py-interface` for
    details).

#. Test the build: enter ``python3 dev.py test -v``.  

    This command runs a suite of tests that make sure SciPy is working as it
    should, and ``-v`` activates the ``--verbose`` option to show all the test
    output. If the tests are successful, you now have a working development
    build of SciPy!
    You could stop here, but you would only be able to use this development
    build when the Python working directory is the SciPy root directory.

#. Enter ``conda develop .``, where ``.`` refers to the present directory. |br| This will allow us to ``import`` the development version of SciPy in Python regardless of Python's working directory.

#. In a new terminal window, test your setup. If you activate your virtual environment (e.g. ``conda activate scipy-dev``) and run Python code that imports from SciPy, any changes you make to the SciPy code should be reflected when the code runs. After deactivating the virtual environment (``conda deactivate``), Python imports from the version of SciPy installed by Anaconda. You can also check which version of SciPy you're using by executing in Python::

      import scipy
      print(scipy.__version__)

   If you have successfully imported a development version of SciPy, the word ``dev`` will appear in the output, e.g.::

      1.6.0.dev0+be97f1a


.. _Anaconda SciPy Dev\: Part I (macOS): https://youtu.be/1rPOSNd0ULI

.. _Anaconda SciPy Dev\: Part II (macOS): https://youtu.be/Faz29u5xIZc

.. _Anaconda Distribution of Python: https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/

.. _Rename the file: https://www.maketecheasier.com/rename-files-in-linux/

.. _Anaconda FAQ: https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/user-guide/faq/

.. _Homebrew on Linux: https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux

.. _Windows Subsystem for Linux: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10

.. |PYTHONPATH| replace:: ``PYTHONPATH``
.. _PYTHONPATH: https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#environment-variables

.. |br| raw:: html

    <br>
