==========================
SciPy 1.2.0 Release Notes
==========================

.. note:: Scipy 1.2.0 is not released yet!

.. contents::

SciPy 1.2.0 is the culmination of X months of hard work. It contains
many new features, numerous bug-fixes, improved test coverage and
better documentation.  There have been a number of deprecations and
API changes in this release, which are documented below.  All users
are encouraged to upgrade to this release, as there are a large number
of bug-fixes and optimizations.  Moreover, our development attention
will now shift to bug-fix releases on the 1.0.x branch, and on adding
new features on the master branch.

This release requires Python 2.7 or 3.4+ and NumPy 1.8.1 or greater.


New features
============

`scipy.special` improvements
----------------------------

The function `softmax` was added to `scipy.special`.

``scipy.stats`` improvements
-----------------------------

The Yeo-Johnson power transformation is now supported (`yeojohnson`,
`yeojohnson_llf`, `yeojohnson_normmax`, `yeojohnson_normplot`). Unlike the
Box-Cox transformation, the Yeo-Johnson transformation can accept negative
values.

Deprecated features
===================


Backwards incompatible changes
==============================

LAPACK version 3.4.0 or later is now required. Building with
Apple Accelerate is no longer supported.

The function scipy.linalg.subspace_angles(A, B) now gives right
results for all angles. Before this function only returned
right values for those angles which were greater than pi/4.

Other changes
=============


Authors
=======

* Nicolas Hug +

Issues closed
-------------

* `#6141 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/6141>`__: Request: transformation functions - Yeo-Johnson

Pull requests
-------------

