==========================
SciPy 1.3.0 Release Notes
==========================

.. note:: Scipy 1.3.0 is not released yet!

.. contents::

SciPy 1.3.0 is the culmination of X months of hard work. It contains
many new features, numerous bug-fixes, improved test coverage and better
documentation. There have been a number of deprecations and API changes
in this release, which are documented below. All users are encouraged to
upgrade to this release, as there are a large number of bug-fixes and
optimizations. Before upgrading, we recommend that users check that
their own code does not use deprecated SciPy functionality (to do so,
run your code with ``python -Wd`` and check for ``DeprecationWarning`` s).
Our development attention will now shift to bug-fix releases on the
1.3.x branch, and on adding new features on the master branch.

This release requires Python 2.7 or 3.4+ and NumPy 1.8.2 or greater.

For running on PyPy, PyPy3 6.0+ and NumPy 1.15.0 are required.

Highlights of this release
--------------------------

- 

New features
============


Deprecated features
===================


Backwards incompatible changes
==============================

Functions from ``scipy.interpolate`` (``spleval``, ``spline``, ``splmake``,
and ``spltopp``) and functions from ``scipy.misc`` (``bytescale``, ``fromimage``,
``imfilter``, ``imread``, ``imresize``, ``imrotate``, ``imsave``, ``imshow``,
``toimage``) have been removed. The former set has been deprecated since v0.19.0
and the latter has been deprecated since v1.0.0.
Similarly, aliases from ``scipy.misc`` (``comb``, ``factorial``, ``factorial2``,
``factorialk``, ``logsumexp``, ``pade``, ``info``, ``source``, ``who``)which have
been deprecated since v1.0.0 are removed. `SciPy documentation for 
v1.1.0 <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy-1.1.0/reference/misc.html>`__
can be used to track the new import locations for the relocated functions.


Other changes
=============


Authors
=======


Issues closed
-------------

Pull requests
-------------
