==========================
SciPy 1.4.0 Release Notes
==========================

.. note:: Scipy 1.4.0 is not released yet!

.. contents::

SciPy 1.4.0 is the culmination of X months of hard work. It contains
many new features, numerous bug-fixes, improved test coverage and better
documentation. There have been a number of deprecations and API changes
in this release, which are documented below. All users are encouraged to
upgrade to this release, as there are a large number of bug-fixes and
optimizations. Before upgrading, we recommend that users check that
their own code does not use deprecated SciPy functionality (to do so,
run your code with ``python -Wd`` and check for ``DeprecationWarning`` s).
Our development attention will now shift to bug-fix releases on the
1.3.x branch, and on adding new features on the master branch.

This release requires Python 3.5+ and NumPy 1.13.3 or greater.

For running on PyPy, PyPy3 6.0+ and NumPy 1.15.0 are required.

Highlights of this release
--------------------------

-


New features
============

`scipy.integrate` improvements
------------------------------

The function `scipy.integrate.solve_ivp` now has an ``args`` argument.
This allows the user-defined functions passed to the function to have
additional parameters without having to create wrapper functions or
lambda expressions for them.

`scipy.interpolate` improvements
--------------------------------

`scipy.io` improvements
-----------------------


`scipy.linalg` improvements
---------------------------
The function ``scipy.linalg.subspace_angles(A, B)`` now gives correct
results for complex-valued matrices. Before this, the function only returned
correct values for real-valued matrices.


`scipy.ndimage` improvements
----------------------------


`scipy.optimize` improvements
-----------------------------


`scipy.signal` improvements
---------------------------


`scipy.sparse` improvements
---------------------------

`scipy.spatial` improvements
----------------------------

`scipy.stats` improvements
--------------------------

Deprecated features
===================

`scipy` deprecations
--------------------
Support for NumPy functions exposed via the root SciPy namespace is deprecated
and will be removed in 2.0.0. For example, if you use ``scipy.rand`` or
``scipy.diag``, you should change your code to directly use
:func:`numpy.random.default_rng` or :func:`numpy.diag`, respectively.
They remain available in the currently continuing Scipy 1.x release series.

The exception to this rule is using ``scipy.fft`` as a function --
:mod:`scipy.fft` is now meant to be used only as a module, so the ability to
call ``scipy.fft(...)`` will be removed in SciPy 1.5.0.

Backwards incompatible changes
==============================

`scipy.interpolate` changes
---------------------------

`scipy.linalg` changes
----------------------

`scipy.signal` changes
----------------------
:func:`scipy.signal.resample` behavior for length-1 signal inputs has been
fixed to output a constant (DC) value rather than an impulse, consistent with
the assumption of signal periodicity in the FFT method.

`scipy.stats` changes
---------------------


Other changes
=============


Authors
=======


Issues closed for 1.4.0
-----------------------

Pull requests for 1.4.0
-----------------------
