==========================
SciPy 1.9.0 Release Notes
==========================

.. note:: Scipy 1.9.0 is not released yet!

.. contents::

SciPy 1.9.0 is the culmination of X months of hard work. It contains
many new features, numerous bug-fixes, improved test coverage and better
documentation. There have been a number of deprecations and API changes
in this release, which are documented below. All users are encouraged to
upgrade to this release, as there are a large number of bug-fixes and
optimizations. Before upgrading, we recommend that users check that
their own code does not use deprecated SciPy functionality (to do so,
run your code with ``python -Wd`` and check for ``DeprecationWarning`` s).
Our development attention will now shift to bug-fix releases on the
1.9.x branch, and on adding new features on the main branch.

This release requires Python 3.8+ and NumPy 1.17.3 or greater.

For running on PyPy, PyPy3 6.0+ is required.


**************************
Highlights of this release
**************************


************
New features
************

`scipy.cluster` improvements
============================


`scipy.interpolate` improvements
================================


`scipy.linalg` improvements
===========================


`scipy.ndimage` improvements
============================


`scipy.optimize` improvements
=============================


`scipy.signal` improvements
===========================


`scipy.sparse` improvements
===========================



`scipy.spatial` improvements
============================


`scipy.special` improvements
============================


`scipy.stats` improvements
==========================

Hypothesis Tests
----------------


Sample statistics
-----------------


Statistical Distributions
-------------------------


Other
-----




*******************
Deprecated features
*******************

`scipy.linalg` deprecations
===========================


`scipy.spatial` deprecations
============================



******************************
Backwards incompatible changes
******************************

*************
Other changes
*************


SciPy switched to Meson as its build system
===========================================

This is the first release that ships with [Meson](https://mesonbuild.com) as
the build system. When installing with ``pip`` or ``pypa/build``, Meson will be
used (invoked via the ``meson-python`` build hook). This change brings
significant benefits - most importantly much faster build times, but also
better support for cross-compilation and cleaner build logs.

.. note::

   This release still ships with support for ``numpy.distutils``-based builds
   as well. Those can be invoked through the ``setup.py`` command-line
   interface (e.g., ``python setup.py install``). It is planned to remove
   ``numpy.distutils`` support before the 1.10.0 release.

When building from source, a number of things have changed compared to building
with ``numpy.distutils``:

- New build dependencies: ``meson``, ``ninja``, and ``pkg-config``.
  ``setuptools`` and ``wheel`` are no longer needed.
- BLAS and LAPACK libraries that are supported haven't changed, however the
  discovery mechanism has: that is now using ``pkg-config`` instead of hardcoded
  paths or a ``site.cfg`` file.
- The build defaults to using OpenBLAS. See :ref:`blas-lapack-selection` for
  details.

The two CLIs that can be used to build wheels are ``pip`` and ``build``. In
addition, the SciPy repo contains a ``python dev.py`` CLI for any kind of
development task (see its ``--help`` for details). For a comparison between old
(``distutils``) and new (``meson``) build commands, see :ref:`meson-faq`.

For more information on the introduction of Meson support in SciPy, see
`gh-13615 <https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/13615>`__ and
`this blog post <https://labs.quansight.org/blog/2021/07/moving-scipy-to-meson/>`__.


*******
Authors
*******



***********************
Issues closed for 1.9.0
***********************


***********************
Pull requests for 1.9.0
***********************

