# SciPy Code of Conduct - Frequently Asked Questions

This FAQ attempts to address common questions and concerns around the SciPy
community's Code of Conduct. If you still have questions after reading it,
please feel free to contact us at *TODO: email address*.

### Why have you adopted a Code of Conduct?

We think the SciPy community is awesome. If you're familiar with the SciPy
community, you'll probably notice that the Code basically matches what we
already do. Think of this as documentation: we're taking implicit expectations
about behavior and making them explicit.

SciPy has grown past the point where it's possible to know the whole community,
and we think it's very important to be clear about our values.

We know that the SciPy community is open, friendly, and welcoming. We want to
make sure everyone else knows it too.

### What does it mean to "adopt" a Code of Conduct?

For the most part, we don't think it means large changes. We think that the text
does a really good job describing the way the SciPy community already conducts
itself. We expect that most people will simply continue to behave as they have
in the past.

However, we do expect that people will abide by the spirit and words of the Code
of Conduct when in "official" SciPy spaces.  In practice, SciPy spaces include
mailing lists, GitHub repositories and various other communication channels.

### What happens if someone violates the Code of Conduct?

We are all stewards of our community, and are encouraged to participate in ways
that defend the values highlighted in this document and help others understand
when their actions go against these values (by engaging them and directing them
to this document if necessary). If that doesn't work, or if you need more help,
you can contact *TODO: email address*. For more details please see our [Reporting
Guidelines](*reporting.md*).

### Why do we need a Code of Conduct? Everyone knows not to be a jerk.

Sadly, not everyone knows this.

However, even if everyone was kind, everyone was compassionate, and everyone was
familiar with codes of conduct it would still be incumbent upon our community to
publish our own. Maintaining a Code of Conduct forces us to consider and
articulate what kind of community we want to be, and serves as a constant
reminder to put our best foot forward. But most importantly, it serves as a
signpost to people looking to join our community that we feel these values are
important.

### This is censorship! I have the right to say whatever I want!

You do -- in your space. If you'd like to hang out in our spaces, we have some
simple guidelines to follow. If you want to, for example, form a group where
SciPy is discussed using language inappropriate for general channels then
nobody's stopping you. We respect your right to establish whatever codes of
conduct you want in the spaces that belong to you. Please honor this Code of
Conduct in our spaces.
